live should say we're barely
live oops let me fix
this and check a few things before we
start
today um let's see so
good this
works funny stuff with the nurs uh nurs
reviews seems like uh many people are
also not satisfied with their
reviews is very
understandable I think I'm technically
allowed to post
them we'll look at that we'll definitely
do something about that um we'll
definitely do something about about that
but in the
meantime uh we've got a lot of work to
do we got a lot of work to
do
so let me go over the plan for
today we found out at least one major
source of error in this MOA this like
mini version of DOTA that I've been
developing for a while
now and uh I got close to fixing it last
night but there were still a few things
wrong with it uh and we get some seg
fults so what I'm going to do today is
I'm going to go through the MOBA code
with a fresh set of
eyes I am going to hopefully fix all
these bugs I'm going to get fast and
consistent ELO
evaluations so that we can evaluate
different models against each other I'm
going to figure out a way to integrate
that with uh the training experiments so
we can get ELO over time is a metric and
then we want to rerun sweeps based on
that if we get all of that done today I
will be
happy if we happen to get all of that
done
early um then thereafter I will also
take a look at some additional sweeps on
GPU Drive Atari and a few other things
as well and potentially take a look at
the config system because there are a
few missing things with the config
system that need to happen it's gener
like 90% there I've Rewritten that thing
four times now so it's 90% there um but
yeah that's what we're going to start
with let me just open real quick on the
side let me open my slack just to make
sure I haven't missed anything on the
GPU Drive environment any
messages all right I have to open it in
browser one
second and uh and then after that we
will start on the
MOBA development
I think I figured it out it's just like
the error that we were the error that we
were facing just had to do with uh me
reusing the same structs every game
without properly clearing them out so I
think I came up with a decent way of
doing
it let me just check the DMS here on
this
well all right oops I accidentally just
closed my stream window hold on and then
we'll start
good okay so here's what we're going to
start
least I am taking a bit of a mini
vacation next week from a little bit of
this work we are actually going to Jem
some C I think next week some actual c
not cython more on that in a little bit
but for now uh I think what we really
need to do is we need to go through the
respawns and we need to think about how
these are going to work so
this okay so it does not check the
source uh the source tile which is what
we want it doesn't check to make sure
that you're on a valid tile so we can
abuse that a little bit
do we just move everything to 0
0 I think that's how we do
it player dox zero player. Y is
zero all
and then let's see do we do anything
with the
X and
Y this is commented so we're not doing
anything there this is commented we're
not doing anything there I think if we
have the kill function sets to zero okay
let's build this and see if this does
anything different if we still get seg
bolts and we do have ways of debugging
uh most seg
looks normal so
far we'll see if this seg faults in a
little bit um this might very well have
fixed it it might have been this simple
and I might have just been being dumb
yesterday I kind of just had to think
through this with a clear head uh if
this does not work then I'm going to be
a little bit
stumped welcome bet yo bet I said I
would be on Discord last night and I I
joined and you weren't there so I don't
know if we missed each other but uh yeah
I can help you debug
whatever
um let me make sure that this mob is in
a good spot
first PR is
open please go ahead and
accept this is a PR for the the error
right um not some crazy typing
8 what was wrong with
int8 this was intentionally supposed to
be wait what was wrong with this this
was intentionally like the spaces
environment was meant to test spaces
with mixed data types and
sizes do you know why this didn't work
like you made the test work by like
essentially deleting the
test okay well I can't just merge this
because you made it work by essentially
deleting the test like this was the test
so if this is not converging then
there's something weird I think that we
mentioned with um that guy mentioned
like that there were some weird issues
with like int 8 and in 16 and stuff um
this is like this is actually a valid
issue in that case
right I did the
sweep yeah but this is supposed to be a
trivially solvable environment if it's
not getting solved then that means the
data is not being sent through correctly
so we are going to have to actually like
look at what the data is in the forward
path of the network so I will have to do
some work on this but this this is not a
fix because like this makes it work by
essentially deleting the test
if you would like to actually get a
little experience in like debugging
these types of things the thing that I
would suggest that you do is go look at
the data as it's coming out of the
environment and then go look at the data
right before it goes into the neural
network and see if we're actually
decoding stuff properly and if we're not
then like Trace back through and figure
out why not use the serial mode so you
can debug all the way through and uh
yeah that's what I would suggest to
do I have you
on hold
on if you actually if you find like a
substantial bug in fix it I will add you
to this list as
well which I probably should already I
was going going to do that when um as
when we when we wrap up Pokemon I was
going to like put it as like a partnered
project or something however pdubs is uh
is comfortable like a sponsored project
or whatever and then it from that I'll
like I'll include the
team I'm generally in favor of giving
people credit for all the stuff that
they
do okay so this still seg fault which
which is uh really
bad at least I can do
man I'm the sad thing is though yeah
okay see you we'll chat
later I'll stay watch okay um yeah the
one sad thing is I thought we were going
to be able to do a bunch of like papers
and stuff with Pokemon but like I'm
literally no longer confident in my
ability to get stuff consistently
published anymore it's like the review
system has just gotten so so bad you're
just rolling the dice on whether or not
a language model reviews your p
it's it's really
bad yeah I I will try I'm just telling
you like I've gotten I got like three
bad sets of reviews this time around
it's bad it's
rough pdbs paper yeah Fair all right
well I'm going to start on this
seriously
um
so this thing still seg
vaults I'm going to just turn on all the
checks
first we'll see if this gives us a
reasonable
unfortunately this does not catch all
segmentation faults I think it only
catches uh segmentation faults in like
numpy array
types or like memory views rather I
think C arrays don't get caught
correctly
I am actually I'm not consider I'm
currently not thinking about doing the
environments in pure C but I am thinking
about making the renderers pure C it
would make it substantially easier to
put these things online I don't know
folks would be interested in seeing
that probably would
doing cool stuff in C from
scratch okay well this is running I want
to go look at the ELO
Cals I want to go look at the the ELO
Cals is a policy
ranker yeah so parameter K controls the
magnitude of the
update converge fast but less
precisely low K cannot distinguish
between players of similar skill while
high K will just take longer to
converge default is tuned for normally
distributed player skill you should
lower it if you have very similar
players or raise it if you're evaluating
a diverse skill
pool interesting
calculate the win probability such
that a 50 10050 ELO difference
corresponds to a wind prob okay so this
is actually correct the way that it is
at the moment
H score
I it's expected I
so this is at most
a if you have a 50/50 win prob
right is the expected
you only get a twoo
update that's very
small of course it's only very small
because for some reason I've decided to
make um a thousand the default
right we'll have to do some simulations
on this to see um how nicely this thing
actually
converges I think that this was a pretty
nice function
though I also have to remember here that
when I tuned this thing originally I
think I wrote this thing for like many
player games like many team games so the
updates would actually be summed oh no
wait they're they're mean not summed
okay okay
interesting
like ah
here here we have
this I think that this is somehow a
player is I don't think that we're
evaluating player position correctly I
think that somehow players are getting
reset to the edge of the board and then
after that we're somehow uh Computing
observations even though that shouldn't
be
possible let's go read up on Elo while
we wait for some of these results to
come
in we can just use like the chess ELO
can't
we difference in rating serves as a
predictor of the outcome of the
match player is 64%
what did we have ours
at
95 okay so this is a weird distribution
that they're using
ELO's Central assumption that the chest
performance is a normally distributed
random
variable assumes that the mean value
changes only slowly over time
yes player's true skill is the mean of
that performance random variable
normal probabilities may be taken
directly from the standard tables of the
area under the normal curve expressed as
a zcore so yes this is exactly what I
did standard deviation is defined as 200
points so I scaled this
differently standard deviation of the
difference in performance becomes 282.30
normal and log distributions are
arbitrary points which work well in
practice they work very well for a
number of different games okay
interesting so we might do
that what is the uh the chest
ELO distribution
1,400 what's
this I don't know if this one's
good two Z to
2,000 pretty
good what is the DOTA MMR
it DOTA is tried to
MMR is this playing
ads no it's quiet
okay
uh where's the freaking algorithm and
why is the entire page just
adds oh my God this is obnoxious let's
see
unreadable how about the
wiki H okay here we got we have some
data
right differing
extents
ooh this is weird it didn't trigger our
update yeah it didn't trigger our
update so I think we have to try
this will be way slower but we'll have
to do try
this I'd really like to be able to
reproduce like the DOTA MMR tables with
their same scale that would be really
cool I'm not going to spend forever
though on it if we don't know the the
okay we don't actually have content but
we can actually we can infer it based
maybe oh this is good
right but this doesn't have it
in this has has it in terms of ranks not
ELO
points is there no MMR is there no
visible MMR and
DOTA hey man sorry nurs didn't go well
for you currently waiting to see if my
reviewers change their scores from
four fours usually no they won't after I
respond to all their weaknesses and
questions
yesh yeah nurs is just rough
um it's like the thing is it's like such
clear it's not me it's you as well I had
a three I had all three papers go uh get
in last year and this year we just got
slammed and the reviews are so much
worse quality like I honestly I don't
think anybody's reading the papers
anymore I think it's just language
models like for my RLC paper I can prove
without like Beyond question that uh it
was a language model reading my paper
reviewers were actually great and gave
good
suggestions oh okay well that's actually
nice it's not written like a language
model is it
because like we there have been a lot of
language model reviews going on it's
kind of
2024 where's the image I just want the
image so I can tune the MMR that I'm
using okay
here
percentile so many papers applying X
mathematical field to my Niche a bit
unlucky and reviewers who are on from
mathematical field rather than my Niche
field I
think seemed like they had just
questions and they wanted answers and
now just radio silence that's
rough
yeah I've had that happen before before
as well it's just
like like I said on Twitter like I'm
done I'm not wasting my time on it
anymore right it's literally just not
worth it to publish for me anymore
because like it takes a ton of
time it it takes like a fair bit of time
to put together a paper I've actually
gotten it down to only being a few days
but still like it's going to be a few
days of my time to put together a paper
plus like another another day or two of
rebuttal um that's assuming that I
already have like figures and stuff
right like if I'm actively trying to
write a bunch of papers it takes way
longer that's just like when I have
everything all set and ready to go
anyways um and for it to just be like a
random freaking coin toss like that's
not valuable like the value of the
papers and me being able to go and
present my work in person and like if
that's not happening consistently and on
a random basis it's just not worth
it leaving Academia and my
PhD Viva is before decisions
yeah no I'm out of like I'm out as well
right I'm I've
graduated I'm still doing work right I'm
still working on all sorts of Open
Source stuff I'm still making RL tools
but like it's like okay like Academia
has sent me a very strong signal that
people are very happy using my tools but
not happy letting me you know publish
any of my work
yeah more blogs you know the thing that
I will write about which is particularly
bad is we got I think it's salvageable
still but we got fairly low reviews on
our competition summary paper from NPS
uh and to put this in perspective
those are not like those are not like
invited submissions they are mandatory
submissions so because we did a
conference we were required to write and
submit this paper that required
coordinating like 20 different people
because you have to coordinate all the
winners of the competition and stuff
right to all submit their material uh no
special like formatting stuff was
provided like we weren't given extra
space so for a summary manuscript that
needs to have space allocated to
describing the solutions of like the top
four four or five winners right we
essentially had no space to write
anything and no space to do any
additional analysis and then the
reviewers just hammered us on like you
know not having enough material in the
paper when they didn't provide space in
the first place on this thing that they
required us to submit um it was just
like boggles the mind
rank distribution does this actually
tell me anything this doesn't tell me
win rates
tmlr
yeah tmlr is good the journal to uh
Conference Track is good I still don't
know if it's if that's worth it to me
though for I don't know if it's worth it
for me to go through like that
track versus just not doing it anymore
it's just like it's been too too much
[ __ ] at this
point it's like too little too late
right
dang I need somebody who actually
understands DOTA to
like tell me how I should set the MMR
Distribution on this
thing publish some papers to
increase what is PhD
Viva PhD Viva I don't know what the Viva
part is
oh thesis defense
yeah oh I see um yeah it's very
different in the US nobody fails their
defense at least at top places nobody
fails their
defense okay here we we got the error
that we were looking
for um the main filter for the US is
admissions like if you get and you're
not going to fail
anything like the people who leave their
phds early they leave cuz like they
they're just sick of it or whatever for
the most
part we don't rather no Corrections than
drag it yeah
Fair it depends on the University as
well some places will do like oh you got
to make a lot of Corrections some places
won't I didn't have to do anything on
mine mine was just um
like
I yeah mine was just like defense
submitted thesis uh
done I put my thesis online as well if
anybody wants to read it like if you
want all the neural MMO content in one
place it's 170 pages of nurl
MMO took me like I don't know a week to
write Maybe
I mean it's just all the all of my paper
stapled together with like an intro a
conclusion and some like some sections
between right it doesn't take that
long okay invalid player position this
is exactly what we were looking for so
that's where I'm at yeah good there's
some places that don't allow you to do
that and they like expect you to write
an original document for your thesis
which is just like huh youve spent five
years writing you know all the original
documents right it's like you're done
you staple them together and then you
give a good defense talk I basically I
put all the effort that I would have put
into like a a big paper that nobody's
going to read I put all the effort into
making a good defense
talk it took me substantially longer to
prepare my thesis defense talk than it
took me to write the paper like I think
it probably took
me probably like a solid 3 weeks of work
for that just for like just to prepare
that
talk maybe a little
more it worked out very well though not
only did um you know did I pass my
defense with it but you know um well
over 100 thousand people have seen that
talk now and I've gotten you know so
many eyes on this space just from that
one uh that one defense talk
right thanks Nathan I am going to do
another piece of high quality content I
have one I've actually been working on
it on stream periodically so you'll see
it over the next few weeks um I've just
been so busy with like this code bit but
like once I'm in a spot where I have all
the experiments for the next update
pretty much just running and I have to
just wait on them you're going to see me
working on the video a lot uh a lot on
here I figured there's no reason for me
not to stream it like yeah it'll spoil
the surprise for some people but like
the number of people that will see this
live is going to be a tiny tiny fraction
uh if the video does well of the number
that should see it when it comes out
anyways so
um yeah I'm going to if you like want to
see my my thought process as I like go
through the stages of like making a talk
that will be live it actually it's
pretty funny like it doesn't start out
good at all like it's such an iterative
process what I end up with in a talk is
nothing like what I start out with like
I start out with something that's really
kind of clunky has like a really bad
narrative Arc has like a bunch of like
weird gaps in it you know has like
really bad pacing and then I end up with
something very nice and Polished but it
takes a long time and uh I don't always
enjoy eny doing it right like I'd rather
be
coding most of the
time so I'll only keep doing it if
people actually watch them and it you
know they actually get some eyes
Yap step is
zero okay this is interesting
so hero type is three let me see if it
used a weird
engage but I don't think it used it cuz
it's at position 0 0
love coding Sims there's going to be a
lot more in this space then like stick
around there's going to be so so much
more and it's like it's not going to
just be coding Sims for coding Sims sake
either this is going to just rocket RL
to the Moon
the one thing I really still want to
figure out how to do is how to get these
things uh playable online and I have a
little experiment I'm going to do next
week that might allow us to do
that ideally without requiring me to
write any freaking JavaScript
I wonder if it's just failing to respawn
the agent correctly that's what I would
imagine I don't know
why but we'll
welcome to all the YouTube folks see the
stream is warmed up
nicely um plan today is to fix the ELO
aows for the mooba and then get it to be
part of the training Loop so we can
actually see ELO over time and that will
allow us to just way way way more easily
train good models because we'll actually
be able to distinguish good ones from
bad ones uh
immediately uh as soon as I finish this
patch you'll have the latest version
pushed
online in to the dev branch which is
right
here I'll link it in
chat and if you want to support the
project for free and help me out a ton
just start the repository it really
helps also if you're looking for more
reinforcement learning
content uh my I have articles on puffer
AI github.io but also on my X if you
check the Articles tab it's all about uh
it's all just reinforcement learning
this is a professional
account not random politics and you know
miscellaneous garbage none of that mixed
in we do a little trolling in the
replies that's about
uh so kind of Nathan you still have to
have I don't want to stream the images
right I was thinking about that I don't
think I want to
stream the the images like I think I
want to have it render
locally maybe I could just stream the
images you're right and bind the
controls I don't know maybe that's worth
doing it seems like that would be hard
to sustain though like that' be a lot of
bandwidth for hosting
that didn't Docker just release these
like images as executables thing can I
just like [ __ ] people Docker images with
all the games that just like you can
double click and play the
games that'd be funny
I want people to be able to play games
like to I want people to like really
easily be able to play against our
models like play games versus the models
ideally online we'll
see I mean the main thing I wanted to do
though like I'm going to be honest I
just wanted to play around with some C
next week CU I'm crazy burnt out on all
the stuff I've been doing So the plan is
that I'm going I've got my race on
Monday and then
I'm going to take a day to recover I'm
going to do some chill stuff for the
rest of the week maybe I'll discover
some cool stuff along the way and then
we'll be back to main experiments after
that puffer is the first time I use
Docker if you see the way that I do my
work you'll know that like I'm very very
selective about introducing heavy tools
so there's a very very strong motive
right for using
Docker there's nothing else that lets
you do that remotely as well
Zero okay so it didn't actually break
here it broke up in the compute
observations right
is that bet or
Nishi who is
that I know two people who make that
joke constantly
huh I'm trying to figure what the heck
is wrong with this thing
right so this thing somehow
respawned moved a little
right and respawn
player moves to the
location and I will get an error message
if it does not successfully move to the
location so how
then how does compute observations get
called
well it's a little interesting that
reset
calls reset already calls compute
observations meaning I don't need to do
huh so somehow what's happening is I am
moving
the wait invalid player position 0 0
yeah so what's happening is somehow I'm
moving the player to z z which I'm
supposed to do uh that's how I like I
prevent it from remaining on the field I
just clear out the position buffer right
but then somehow compute observations is
getting called before the player gets
moved back to a actually re reasonable
position um which doesn't really make
sense to me because I see that the spawn
positions are correct spawn X and spawn
y are both reasonable values and then
here I call I go through numb
agents and then I do respawn
player what's the IDE of IT team one
hero types
three with PID on here player ID yeah
eight so this is work and then if
compute
observations we go through num
agents we look at player doy and player
dox right
0 Let's just print the game tick out I
want to see if this is happening on
reset or if it's just happening randomly
that will make a difference or if it's
happening at like a specific point that
means that I'm corrupting my data
somehow
and in the meantime let's go back to
looking at the
mmrs
so let me see how uh is there like an
implementation of this
here different ELO rating systems
this because it this like just assumes
that you can't get better over time that
you like it's I don't like things that
are based on the total number of games
you've played I think that's a bad
factors H I think we're just going to
have to run some Sims because it's kind
of hard to
tell this is still not
how many billion can I run per
day
funny why is this feed so garbage this
is my following feed why is it this
garbage freaking all Elon spam damn it
H this is why I uh I limit my [ __ ]
posting to replies for the most part um
so they don't spam people's following
feed it doesn't tend to put replies in
there very often
so uh for some reason it's not crashing
yet you know why don't we in the
meantime let's do something useful in
the
meantime we're going to do something
useful in the meantime that'll be more
entertaining to watch than me just like
waiting on things to crash so every time
you know while we're waiting for
experiments we'll
just we're going to evaluate our elos
system and uh we're going to see how
good it is
essentially I remember having a test for
this do we have like test ELO or
something test
extensions exensions clean
well all this see is this in
here test update
scores I think this is stated
right yeah I don't think we have a test
for this which is kind of weird let's
right tests buffer lib policy
pool where is it puffer lib what
happened
ranker all right so this is what we
I we're going to test out this ELO
system pdb except support at Trace
offer lib policy ranker import elos now
what we're going to do is elos equals n,
th000 uh and then what we're going to do
is we game in range thousand
games
um let's do win prob
let's do like win
prob yeah
win random. Rand is less than
Point
25 then we'll do ELO pair is equal to or
elos equal update
elos then we'll do print
what if we only Run 100 games does this
also give us a stable
estimate
so you run a few games and then it gets
down to
990 and it takes a decent number of game
to get down into the 70s and then it
kind of evens out somewhere between 70s
and 80s
so there's like a 10 potish uncertainty
range it looks
like and then what did I say that this
was supposed to
be it's weird that this thing still
hasn't crashed by the way that's very
odd
a difference of 50 should be a win prob
of
okay so the difference at the moment is
points wait no a difference of 50 is 68
win
so the difference should be more than 50
actually right is that not
happening it looks like it isn't it
looks like we only get a difference of
30 well it's swingy though because here
this is a difference of 60 up here
I guess this is what happens when like
the skill rating doesn't get tighter
over time right is that it's just very
swingy H that's a tough problem
though not being able to
adjust not being able to adjust
um adjust like the elasticity of your
rating
right cuz like if I were to
do here if I were to do
test
ELO what if I were to set K to like k
equals 1
right k equals
1 and we'll do a th
games I think something is wrong because
this is only giving me a difference of
ELO for a 75% win rate
yeah this does not seem like the math is
perfectly
correct I wanted this to
be 50 ELO is a difference
of 50 ELO should be a difference
of uh 68% win rate so it should be more
than 50 for
75% so there's something is wrong with
the math here
I don't know does anybody actually know
of like a good ELO system I should use I
remember spending a lot of time trying
to figure this out
uh parison of Elo
systems can we find something
reliable this is for a different this is
like for player
inactivity this is them implementing
still skill
decay parison of Elo and true skill I
remember having so many problems with
true skill
elos systems can tend to inflate over
time it is only comparing two players
rating to determine a new rating a
better player who plays
often will gain more and more points
over
time they play often and they win
Gams that's
weird limits the maximum number of
points per game
see interesting H it's like this zero
some thing where like you got to be
careful where if points come out of if
ELO points come out of thin air right
you got to be careful with
like I remember true skill just being
really
bad the problem I remember having with
true skill is that
um it pushes all of the scores together
over
yeah I don't like um I don't like true
skill for this so we'll figure something
else out it's very weird to me that this
is suddenly
working when this did not work before
and I didn't change anything
um oh there it goes like look at that
that's crazy it played 132 games before
eventually hitting the uh the bug right
as I was saying
that since this is the farthest is it's
gotten we can actually see some of these
elos we can see that it thinks
that uh it's best
after 100 iterations or whatever so it
actually says it gets better early in
training
it gets to 110 and then it's like
roughly stable thereafter but these are
very small values uh and then this this
one has gone down a
ton which it should it's a random this
is a random variable essentially this is
a random policy so it should never be
winning
games we'll go look at the ELO formula
maybe we'll actually do some like pen
and paper math today I haven't done that
in so
long but yeah let's we'll we'll do maybe
some modeling on this after we fix this
bug for sure
so this is happening mid
game it looks like mid game it gets
spawned the player gets
respawned and then
um observations get computed before it
gets moved or the player gets killed and
then observations get comput Ed before
it gets moved somehow right let's figure
out how that happens hero type 3
on because it also has a Teleport skill
as the thing that could be implemented
wrong
yeah so radiant tank
has uh
engage AOE this
skill which has this move
near turn
false I'm going to just try this for now
we're going to set this up and then
while this runs I don't know how long
it's going to take but we're going to do
a little bit of math
so right
now this is a process in
which we model
we model win probability on a normal
okay
1015 and
984 is a 300 Point
difference a 30 point
difference and if I do
right so
this is a 20 point
difference this is still pretty variable
despite me running so many games isn't
it 13 to
86 13 to 84 13 oh wait no it
isn't yeah know it is it is there's
still a fair bit of variability here
because this here is
18 uh this one
is still not a 50 point difference it's
still unders shooting
40 Point
difference okay let's see why that
is did I do this zcore thing
table and it's been so long since I've
done any real math this is like not even
real math this is
basic to be fair of like every branch of
mathematics stats has always been my
worst
this doesn't tell us on its own right
[ __ ]
ads this doesn't tell us on our on its
own also make this not be
oops so what I'm trying to figure out is
I'm trying to figure
out
um essentially like the difference in
probability Mass right
number of standard
deviations that it's above or below the
mean right that's what I want
did 1
over 1 + 10 the power of
the
difference where did I get this
from honestly I'm just forgetting where
I got this from like chippity will tell
me where I freaking did this math
from I forget what I'm like even what I
did this with where did I get this
formula
the only reason that chat GPT should be
able to be right here is because this is
me being incredibly stupid this is like
really
basic adaptation of the ELO
system standard ELO formula
distribution wait
84 so did I do this wrong is it 84 did I
just get it the number
wrong 1 2 and 3 is 97 and 9
99.8 that's not right is
it
wait is it just wrong
was wait
84 it is 84 where did I get 68
[Music]
68 I knew it 6895 where is
this three standard deviations
see PDF yeah
this is me being very very bad at Stats
and uh trying to figure out how I
screwed up this ELO Cal
so I think I got 68 instead of
84 because let me think does that make
sense 8 68 so that is
84 16 yeah so I did one-sided instead of
two I did uh
I did one-sided instead of two-sided
which is correct isn't it because if you
have if you have 60% of the data between
here and
this I'm trying to figure out where I
got this formula from and whether it's
correct so I took the ELO formula and
then I found this coefficient here I
adjusted this coefficient I was trying
to produce the 68 95 99 7 or whatever
rule at deviations of a fixed offset so
like 50 100
150 so essentially like every 100 Point
jump means you're 95% to win against 100
points lower
it's so funny to me how chat GPT is
apparently solving everything according
to shills and it just tells you that s
the average of 72 73 and 76 is 77
useless yeah so where's the ELO
formula where's the ELO formula come
from I got it from somewhere okay here
it
draws average Club player to have a
rating of 1500 ELO
scaling so that 200 points would means
an expected score of approximately 75
10 claw latest models are better
yeah maybe I should maybe I should just
cancel all of them I don't
stuff I think that this was me doing
like some weird Z transform stuff I
think like what I did is I looked this
up on a t like in a z table and then I
tried to figure out like well if this
gives you 75 then what number gives you
95 and like going from there
yeah still hasn't crashed we're doing
this while we're waiting for uh this to
give me more Diagnostics about why like
there bugs in the environment
this thing doesn't explain where the
math comes from like why is this 75 like
how does this formula give you
75 logistic curve no I know what a
logistic function is I don't understand
the okay
here no wait I know what that is as
well oh is it just like area
under is this just like empiric area
under log curve or something
no I don't I still don't know where 2075
comes
from I could just go with their uh their
metric and have a 200 Point difference
be 75%
and then it would follow the chest
distribution let me try that real quick
just to see what
happens this is if we just set this to
right okay we get something we get
something test
ELO and then what we do is we set this
to 75
difference this doesn't give me a 200
Point difference
though let me
see maybe I just implemented this thing
like the update wrong or something
so expected scor is a 75% chance of
winning and 25% chance of
plus 1 over 1 + 10 the ELO 2 minus ELO
1 over 400 right
there should be a 200 Point
difference oh it is a 200 Point
difference I just can't
read let me
see it's a little
is it just not updating quickly enough
hold
go I'm surprised it's that noisy with a
with 10,000
games but that
is that's the 200 Point difference
pretty much spot on
they use a huge freaking K
value like 32 24
interesting use the following ranges
before okay so now it uses 10
2040 it's a logistic distribution rather
than a normal
oh this is actually gradient descent
that's really funny I didn't realized
that that totally makes sense
though this is a this is like a a just a
estimate of gradient descent okay this
is
funny yeah of course it is
right so let's use k equal
to they say 10 is what they use for
their best players right I think this is
going to be crazy
deviated okay so you get a deviation 1 2
3 four six 7 8 9 10 so there's a Devi
with 10 games we get a deviation range
of smallest one is right
here about a 50 point deviation range it
looks like
right then here is oh no wait it's more
oh [ __ ] it's like almost a it's like an
80 Point deviation
range but that's reasonable
to swing around by
yeah I think the larger K values are
just crazy though
right they used like
32 or let's say
20 I think the 20 ratings are
nuts these are way too swingy right
eight well the rating is never wrong
it's never rating one player higher than
the other that where it's it's wrong
there right but the largest deviation we
see so
864 to 954 is
100 points or so and then
here 1135 is the highest and then
10 1045 is the lowest so 90
points it's not terrible it's not
terrible how is that not any different
from uh the k equals 10 one though how
is it not any less
swingy if I like do k equals 1 is it
going to be way way more accurate like
like yeah this
is within like a few points
right 20 points maybe but this takes
forever to
converge new players until they complete
total of 30
games and this is 3 they use k32
here in the US One
K factor of 24 may be more accurate as a
predictive tool
and more sensitive of performance
okay we'll try
24 as our
default it's supposed to be not super
sticky right
so the lowest value we get here is 829
and the highest value is 956 so that's
very swingy 130 points almost then
have what's the lowest 1050 maybe 1043
to 1170 yeah so like 130 points of
Swingin so you're like plus or
points I mean that matches my intuition
though
of that does match my intuition from
like online games
that means you're gaining or losing up
to 24 ELO per match right that's the
interpretation if you win a match where
you're even if you win an even match
right where it it thinks that you're the
same skill rating as another player you
gain 12 ELO they lose 12
ELO if you win a match where it thinks
that you're better to begin with you
gain less than 12 ELO they lose less
than 12 ELO and if you win like over
whelming odds you can get up to double
you can get up to 24 ELO in a
game 24 ELO in a game means in eight or
nine games you're able to rank up
essentially if 200 ELO is a rank which
is like 200 points
and my guess is that they actually have
it set lower than this for
um for like online games my guess is
it's less than a
75% win chance per rank
right I'm trying to think of like what
do I think the win rate is of a silver
team versus a bronze team
right so maybe it's the 95% win rate is
for the full
rank let me see what's the DOTA MMR
spread I'm just trying to fit this to
real world data like
oh they changed
it they changed it from a logistic or
whatever to a bell curve
where's the MMR table okay here's
one
no if you say the same
ELO the win rate is the same for both
yeah what I'm trying to get a sense of
is like I'm trying to match this in my
head so I can see
like and I guess I don't know it well
enough for uh for DOTA but
like let's do somewhere in the middle of
the player base so
it looks like the spread for each rank
is like 600 MMR points is that
right yeah like 600ish MMR
points so that means what do we think
that the win rate is of like one whole
tier up versus one tier
lower like an archon team versus a
crusader team what do we think the win
rate win rate is one hold rank up is it
wait one two yeah it's like 150 points
per tier
if yeah if they play I'm basically
trying to make sure that the ELO system
that we have is like reasonable for a
game which it should be because I'm just
using the chess
one I don't know if I have the
distribution reasonable though this
might be like the old logistic
distribution thing
I just want to get like a nice clean
skill rating
curve I think that this should work
though the way I have it
here I think that I just had the math
wrong before like the way I had scaled
it and now that this should be this
should be valid like and it should not
take this many games either if I do like
a 100 games
is let's just see what the spread is on
this
so the lowest here is 860 no
839 all the way up to
54 yeah so it's about the same it's only
11 10ish points and then here it's 1160
is the highest down to 1045 yeah so this
is this converges actually reasonably
quickly let me see if I do if I put this
print back here and I say like hey
you're just going to play 20
games what happens
so
10 looks like it
loses a
couple and
then goes
up and now it has by 20 games it has
roughly the 200
point the 200 Point Gap that we're
looking for not always
though here it's only up by 100
decent I think this is a reasonable
enough
model and it converges quite
yeah why is this thing is I think that
actually this might just mean where that
the bug is fixed here because it has not
seg faled at all um which could just
mean that the teleport bug the bug was
in the
teleportation let it run a little longer
I think we got ah we got the ELO thing
roughly under
control thing
here
nope I do not know what the heck this
timeline is
so much
is it the move near
function it only gets called in three
places right it gets
called in this engage AOE in the
Assassin TP that or two places yeah
that's it and it always causes issues so
all it does is it
says it calls move
near tank engage
AE hold on something's weirds going on
with the
desktop
uh-oh I think we might be crashing here
hold
on that was a good save the C the uh CPU
fan got stuck
uhoh hold on let's not overheat my box
here the uh the fan is getting stuck on
something definitely don't want
AOE how does this get called we get
scan nearest scanned Target of player
right
I want to figure out what the heck is
going on
is there there supposed to be an Els
here this thing is making such a bad
okay um I think that I have this logic
wrong so
yeah this doesn't make any sense right
scanned
players but the thing is that I Target
can be null here
player oh
wait no you because you have to
scan if attack Target equals 1
scanning okay I understand so we are
scanning every
tick we give the player the option of
what it wants to scan it can scan
everything or just Heroes and Towers um
excluding friendlies
two if Target is
null then you return false
right and then there's also this one
target is null you return false
so we are checking to see if we have a
valid Target
here oh
wait I think it's an order thing wait wa
wait I think I know so you
something this definitely is fixed right
here this is definitely fixed but I need
to figure out why the teleport is is
breaking it when you you turn the
teleports
on it's
somehow it is somehow teleporting
say it dies and responds
right so the thing it dies and then it
responds
is it has to be like targeting a ghost
essentially
right it has to be targeting something
that's like still on the field
this I want see if we're scanning
invalid
targets I'm going to have to rethink the
pit system as well after uh after this
project because it's very very aerop
prone
ah I'm just dumb that's
why no
pointer this is not a Happy
fan today at
there's going to have to be some desktop
maintenance at some
point this is what I get for building a
mini
ITX okay so this should Now Catch if
we're scanning an invalid Target
we basically know the symptoms at this
point though like
it's something
where the thing is teleporting out of
bounds we're not getting any errors in
the scanning though
right this engage AOE Break Stuff
we have move near player
does move
to YX
right for
very explicitly see where it's
teleporting
okay good here this is what we were
looking for
right entity pit is
six six
right 2 three
four
wait PID is going to be
Target pit is negative one so we have an
invalid
I think that there's like there's
something where like agents are ghosting
like they're being left on the map and
not being cleared correctly and as a
result they're being picked up in scans
even though they're invisible it's like
you're targeting ghosts
and then when you try to jump to the
Target you jump to the real Target which
is off the map because it's being
respawned yeah so
immediately invalid
oh wait no this
is Target no Target dot pit is
zero no wait this needs to be negative
one stupid
me let's fix that
okay
so Target PID
what
wait I'm very
confused Target pit is negative one oh
wait it's not in the scan it's in move
near that's interesting so when it's
scanned it's fine but then when you move
to it it's
happen so when I'm calling scan
AOE oops
right
idx idx gets set to zero
and you
null you null the target the last one if
none are
found mind you we don't actually scan
any invalid targets we just move near
one so
here if the scan
Target you do the scanner right here
right oh wait wa
wait if attack Target is zero you
right CU if you don't scan you could
have an old Target in your
buffer and that old Target could have
died and if that old Target dies it's
not going to be null but it's going to
have z a negative pit and it's going to
have a bad
position not yeah let's
see let's see see if this fixes
it I think I have it damn
it
we're going to let this run for a bit
and we'll see I think I got it though
oops twitch
Twitter oh it's CU I'm on the wrong tab
it's over here
panelists looks like we're good
this has to run a little longer but it
looks like we're good
so I don't know why I had this but this
was allowing bad targeting to get into
the
buffer so now what we're going to do is
we're going to pair down all this
logging and stuff and all these
checks and uh we're going to make sure
that everything still
works we're going to make sure
everything is still
fast and then we are going
to integrate this with uh the experiment
side of things
okay look at all of this like garbage
logging I had to add in here is that
bug this is why things that have to like
keep syn uh keep state in sync are just
really evil
because if you get like State out of
sync it's really hard to
catch it's like this is the thing it
always bites me always every time it's
so and it's so annoying cuz like it's
the way that you get
speed like having like having state that
has to be kept in sync like this so you
can have multiple data structures that
are like 0 of one for whatever you're
using them for so you get the best of
both is so so efficient um but it's also
just how you always always always get
bugs every single
time yeah there you go 21 games solid
let's set this up actually we're going
to set this up without the flags as
well we'll compile this fast
I put these on as debug
Flags C division stays on this one goes
off oops redo set
up and then we'll essentially just
see how uh our ELO Cals go and eval elos
we do k equals to
oh and then we're going to very very
quickly see how the scores uh work
out
nice so yeah as you can see it's minus
12 + 12 as an even game it'll diverge a
little bit after that
would be more interesting to see how the
last Model does right 0476 or
way it's
four 6.
PT let's try this
one oops
model
o
games interestingly now the games are
going to take way longer because uh both
policies are actually comp
though interestingly we lose to the
first train
checkpoint now this is a mirror match it
doesn't know it but it's playing against
itself
they do keep taking
Towers the games
last I'm not really worried about how
long the games take though because let
me think
I think we set it to like five ticks per
second right so this is 2,000
seconds or a 10K
game well this one's going very
long 4,000 yeah this is over an hour
long game
again oh no no no we didn't have the old
bug okay good look it did win I thought
it wasn't triggering wind condition
again I was
worried no that bug I think is
gone radiant
Victory we beat you know the mirror
match I could see the mirror matches
taking very long as well right it's like
a perfectly even
match now we're uh doing this against
opponent 450
what do I think about doing multiple
games at the same time
thing is that I have to wait for like
each game to
finish
individually a little worried that this
thing is going to need to be fast to be
integrated into the sweeps tool because
it needs to evaluate like what like 20
games or whatever to get a reasonable
rating at
least if it takes like a minute per game
I can't add a 20 minutes to the end of
every
run I would have to make this GPU roll
out at the end of the game
game which would have to be
substantially
faster though if I did do it on GPU I
could do them all at once so I could
actually potentially make it like a 100
times faster
right which would be worth
doing the downside would be I wouldn't
get the curve over the course of
training if I did it that way
though well you could still technically
get it whenever you want you could just
pause and like do
it is this the mobile like environment
made especially for RL or one of the
actual PC games this is especially for
RL uh but it's like the map data is one
to one with DOTA uh we haven't
implemented Forest yet but the obstacles
in the arrangement is one to one creep
creep uh patterns like creep movement
and stuff is one to one um their like
pathing is one to one
um what else is one to one Tower
placements are one to one not everything
is one to one we have five
Heroes yeah 100x faster we can do um the
main thing is that this thing runs at a
million FPS single thread
so that's a lot of
data in fact this thing is so fast that
we're going to be able to get onto the
same order of magnitude of uh the amount
of training that open AI 5 did with like
1,000 gpus we're going to be able to be
on that same order of magnitude with one
GPU the amount of data that they trained
on it's going to be really
cool these games just go really long
holy
hell I mean this is the equivalent here
of uh like hour and a half nearly two
hour long game
because they're just the agents are
really stupid right
now I mean every 500 uh every thousand
steps that you see here
is I think four or five minutes of
gameplay but this is running this is
running the neural Nets in real time
like this is running the neural net
works really
inefficiently on one CPU core
so I was trying to figure out how I
wanted to make this thing
like if I wanted to make this thing CPU
or GPU like if I wanted to run it at the
same time as the main Loop or if I
wanted to run it
intermittently and I think we're just
going to have to make it really fast on
GPU and then just run it not
particularly
often be the way to
go run it like every 10 minutes we'll
run it for a minute or something we only
we'll guarantee that we don't add more
than 10% overhead with this eval
somehow but you can see that the elos
are slowly being adjusted right it
hasn't sampled everything yet but
um it says that we have 1,000 ELO so
we've actually converged back to where
we started but then 450 has gotten uh
1012 you can see you know different
models have performed
differently Puffer puffer is hold on
puffer is only about taking good care of
environments right it doesn't handle en
Force any learning method stuff like
offline training or World models can be
done yeah puffer is not a framework it's
a pretty lightweight
Library um we do fast
simulations we give you really good
vectorization we give you compatibility
tricks to make uh to make it easy to
work with very complex environments just
the same as really simple environments
we give you bindings for lots of common
environment so they work out of the box
we give you a container with stuff
that's really annoying to get set up and
installed we give that to you out of the
box and if you want to use our learning
scripts right I have a demo po script
that does um well that's very highly
optimized very high throughput and is
integrated with all sorts of WB sweeps
carb sweeps Etc so it's I mean I tell
people like to just go read the code
because like people like come in
expecting that you're going to need to
have a giant manual full of docks on a
project like this and you really don't
like the entire stack top to bottom
including the SIM code is maybe a few
thousand lines like 2 3,000 lines like
here even in this case this m is crazy
complicated right this is I think 1,500
lines of code for the Mobis Sim few
hundred lines of wrapper [ __ ] and
rendering on top of that uh
vectorization is maybe like 600 lines to
get it from multiple processes onto GPU
and then the whole train Loop plus demo
code is maybe another ,000 that's it
it's really not that
bad and it's not split over like a
million plyy files either that are like
really complicated to figure out what
does what it's like it's written really
really stupidly and simply in the
easiest possible way to understand
now I need
Hardware
yeah I can't make RL work with zero
Hardware right you can actually run like
the snake and for like little plyy
environment you can probably run well
enough even on CPU like I actually some
of my stuff will train way faster than
most modern RL will train on like a
really high-end machine like my stuff
will train faster on One Core than most
environments will train on like a
high-end machine so you can kind of do
some work but really like you're looking
at having a decent
desktop um you don't need stuff that's
as good as I have you can save quite a
bit of money and get relatively close
but you know reasonably high on CPU and
like 3080 at
least yeah it's it's viable on this the
single M's um here I'll show you
like this is what I use for my stuff
this is a bit more than most people are
going to have access to
right
um I'm trying to build this out my hope
is that sometime in the next year or
so really all I need to do with puffer
is I need to get us like a quar million
in revenue and then I'm going to build
out a 50 node cluster um and that's
going to power
like majority of Open Source RL work out
there we'll just like you know allocate
compute to various cool different open
source projects and people doing
Dev but for now this is the starter
cluster with eight
nodes
yeah I mean this is a nice setup but
it's not a crazy setup right like if you
think about it in language modeling you
buy one node that has eight gpus on it
um and it's like 100 Grand with
discounts uh and that node is not going
to be particularly well speced for
reinforcement learning the core ratios
to gpus are all wrong etc etc this
entire thing is about
$30,000 it has 8 gpus but it has like
200 cores and it's way way way better
optimized for RL
you can do Cloud GPU modal's fine I
haven't used them vast is fine I know
people like vast because it's
cheap these boxes are about 4,000 bucks
a piece uh you could downgrade a couple
things and still get relatively good
perf at like maybe 3,000 bucks a box you
can use them for other stuff as well
right this is basically just buying a
high-end gaming desktop and the only
thing I would suggest is if you're not
going to exclusively use Puff Ms and you
want like to use some other Ms that are
not as well perf optimized that you
probably want to get a uh a pretty high
core CPU right so these are 24 core
CPUs with puffer Ms you really don't
need them I only use two cores while
running uh most of my
experiments but with all the other ones
yeah you really need the cores
tiny
grad what's Tiny grad going to do their
boxes are not spec for
RL they have too much G GPU and not
enough CPU for
RL though maybe with the new
um you know maybe with the new Puffs
they're all right are these A600 nope
they're
490s it's the really nice thing about
just buying desktops straight up is that
uh you can buy nice just desktop grade
cards and I'm perfectly allowed to use
them like this as well because this is
not techn Tech um this is not
technically a data center right I'm not
linking the machines together I'm not
doing like any inter machine stuff I'm
just giving these out to people as Dev
boxes so like I'm completely allowed to
do
this I don't even have to worry about
toss or
anything like they're not installed in
server racks or anything the rack that
they're installed on is a garage rack
right
the some of these games go really long
holy
hell okay here's the plan um we're going
to I'm going to make this thing way
faster well I'm going to go I'm going to
take a few minutes now I'll be back in a
few minutes I got a bad headache I got
to like go get an Advil reset do a
couple quick things uh then I will be
back and what we're going to do is we're
going to make this 100 times faster by
making this parallelized on
GPU and uh we're going to then integrate
it with wanb sweeps and we're going to
be able to get uh hyper Prem sweeps that
actually tell us like ELO over different
training runs and that's going to give
us like really really good stable
estimates of which hyper parameters are
good versus
not going to be a FSH minutes though got
to go resolve
this here I'll put the I'll put this up
in the meantime for I don't know people
to look
at the article on the site there's
actually like a full Hardware tear down
if you want to look it up on the the
website be right
right is the desk on the image the one
that you're sitting at right now
nope the desk on the image is not a desk
it is a rack in a
garage this is in Florida I'm currently
in California
so the tricky thing here I just realized
is that I know how to make
evaluations versus one opponent 100
times faster
I don't know how to make evaluations
against all the opponents 100 times
faster do be map doesn't
work so we'll write this the dumb way
first and then we'll write it a smart
way I guess
right thinking how I want to do
this it's a tricky one to write
correctly
this
working yeah we're
um I also kind of want to fix the ELO
evaluations don't I
do I've been avoiding trying I've been
trying to avoid writing this piece of
code for so
long we're going to have to do it though
we're doing it
today
replacement without replacement is
sample
thank you
okay so we return this we return uh some
randomly selected opponents right
length of paths is less than n
then
samples
voices
else okay
I should have read this back written
this
backwards
okay so here's your policy and we'll do
opponents it's going to be load load
eight opponents
do this on GPU
now and we have our
opponents this in elos
is
garbage do I like doing it like this let
me think
in there simple
way oh yeah the sample supports range
cool
um
opponents opponents
by okay so we have map locations we have
our opponents loaded we've got our elos
defined this is good
um and we just have to do elos of mine
is equal to a
th000 now what we're going to do is
we're going to switch this up a little
bit yeah we're going to have to like
switch up this logic quite a
bit we're going to keep this function
signature like this
games um games
equals
so two how do I how many do I have to
start with
eight do 16
and now things get a little harder than
usual M's policy
out that
reset and then we have CM here which is
commented my state opponent
state is these are
fine holy
hell I don't know what the heck is wrong
with my fan
here uhoh I got to get this working or
the machine's going to overheat
hitting I can't remotely tell where it's
hitting for
okay hopefully this machine lasts me for
a little
longer I'll probably have to like do
some maintenance on it
bought a deep learning textbook years
ago I don't know what I should do with
it I may have skipped something
I'm gonna be honest I haven't fully read
a single
one I think I have the bishop book and
the probabilistic graphical models book
here
technically and I actually I started off
way more math heavy than I am now I
started off like pretty heavy on the
math side of
ML and it just wasn't freaking
useful just how else to say
it I got way more mileage out of just
building stuff so you know I put fewer
and fewer skill points into math and
more and more skill points into building
stuff and it's worked out pretty well I
really can't say that I'm often limited
by the math side of things like
sometimes I'll feel really stupid
because I can't do something simple
quickly
but it's pretty rare pretty rare
I think this machine is on its last legs
here this um
the CPU fan at least I'm trying to think
what I can do till I get it to
stop getting caught on
something I don't even know what's
getting caught on
it this is going to die on me if I don't
get this under
control
[ __ ] [ __ ] man
okay maybe this does something for
now
um I'm trying to think what the heck
could be even be
happening there's nothing that should be
blocking
well I can't just spend all day worrying
about it so I'm going to put the case
fan like right in front of the CPU for
now
and if uh the machine suddenly goes down
due to Thermal shutdown then I'll just
just I'll probably like do this on my
laptop for the rest of the day and then
I'll order a fan for next stream which
will be um you know next week
sometime and I'll have to do the
maintenance before
then I don't know what's up with this
thing
though not even that old
okay tow is
taken and what we'll do is
got reset I
think do
this so if uh it goes 50k steps I don't
even think I need this logic cuz I don't
even think I'm going to run it for 50k
steps right but just in
case we'll do
this I don't even know if this helps but
we'll leave it for
now this thing actually is
like I don't think you can hear it
through the mic but um it's like a
lawnmower dying or
something I don't know does anybody know
a decent like slim profile Mini ITX air
cooler I can get for this
well Mini ITX no no this is not my uh
this is not a 24 core this is
this is an i7
10700k this is my local box the 24 cores
are the ones in the cluster the mini
cluster this one has a 3080 in it and uh
whatever this
is here I can't spin the camera but I
can show you
let me see how do I not get the glass
reflection on
I don't know why my camera doesn't like
let me focus on this
photo
there might be better it's still kind of
washed out
but there you go
so this is the part that's obnoxious
right
the crazy thing is I'm trying to
actually do this and it like the fan is
acting up so badly I can feel the I can
feel the vibrations through my keyboard
which is sitting on a like pretty thick
mouse pad as well like Mouse
mat let me just make sure that I don't
have like a million degrees
not a million degrees I think it's okay
for
now
yeah it's okay for
now 67c
72c I'll leave this on the side if it
goes crazy I'll uh I'll do something if
not I'll just try to ignore it best I
can this is the last day I'm streaming
until um
until after I'm back next week anyways
so I'll just order something today and
uh we'll see from there I really want to
get this done though
so because if I can get this done
basically the DOTA project is set to go
like we'll be able to do so
I guess technically what we can do is we
can do as tensor OBS OBS equals OBS do
do num M's
length
Okay we're going to reshape this to be
num
Ms 10 is the number of Agents per
environment and then minus
one OB shape
right we check we'll double check on
that but I think that's it and then
we'll do my
OBS
is colon five opponent OBS is colon five
star
so we'll do it in a loop to begin
okay so we
get we get all my so we get OBS for this
specific
I
opponent my state OB
State now this is OB this is very
annoying actually as
like I know what operations have to be
done here it's just very difficult to
think about how to do these efficiently
I think this
works so we reshape it so that we get
the
proper
observations so now we have a big block
of
OBS for multiple games at the same time
so this is vectorized
thisx
equals
x let's do opponent
we can vectorize this even further if
we're
smart but we're going to start with
all
right like this update this
date and then what about the
it's got to be a better way of doing
this stuff the indexing is just so hard
maybe if I'm
clever hold on
if I concatenate this along the right
Dimension I think that this will work
and I can
reshape that's not easy though that's
really not
for
M see equals n
and we need to do a little bit more than
this we need to return scorecards
okay let's start debugging this
monstrosity
um this needs to be made simpler
it's to explain what's going on here
like I'm I'm trying to paralyze right I
have many games of DOTA and they each
have five agents in them so the indexing
is like you have your policy controlling
every single like one zero through four
and then
like uh 10 through 14 and then like 20
through 24 is all one policy and then
the rest of them are controlled in
blocks by different policies so you just
have this really awkward indexing over
which torch model is controlling what um
and it has to be done batched because
otherwise it's very
inefficient so I don't want to rely on
vmap to like get all the efficiency for
me so the hope is that in eval we're
going to have a way we're going to
select like eight policies to eval
against and
then we're going to do vectorize we
haven't done it yet but we're going to
vectorize all of your policy calls
so that in one pass we do like 100 M's
worth of Ford pass for your policy and
then we do individually like in eight
different batches we'll do the ones for
the other the other policies and maybe
we can vmap stuff or something I don't
know but it's
tricky definitely
tricky I don't think we can just
straight
up I don't think we can just straight up
VM map everything and have it work
right I don't think it will be anywhere
near as
results fancy magic yeah
I'm trying to think if I want to trust
torch
vmap isn't it this A compiled operation
as
well I don't think I want to I don't
think I want to trust
this I don't think I want to trust
vmap I think you do it
manually you suffer once and then you
don't suffer again
I'd rather suffer more now than suffer
in small little bits later
is there a a operation I can use to
slice chunks out of
want I could also just make the indexing
mask
right instead of doing this view shape
thing is that better
do
shape El
for okay we can do
this
dot
two for
now and then my idx
okay okay so we have my idx is we got
opponent idx is
stes State
none
States we getting some serious indexing
[ __ ] now so here's what I'm trying
to do I'm going to in one pass we might
have like 100 environments right it's us
playing against a ton of different
opponents simultaneously
so we're going to do all of our
computations in one pass vectorized on
GPU no vmap no
[ __ ] and we're going to do it like
this and if we don't have an lstm we do
it like
this okay so this
is
parallel parallelize across
opponents okay and then
iterate policies
and the way that we do this now
is so this is going to be
pointer that's what it is we start
at say num M's m per opponent
yeah let's not do that let's just
iterate over number of opponents four I
in
range we're going to make it num
opponents because we keep using it
everywhere
okay pointer is going to be
going to be equal
to start it up here and then we're going
to do end
equals pointer plus m per opponent time
uh 10 * m per
opponent no five times m per opponent
because we control five
agents okay and then what we're going to
not forget to do is down here somewhere
we're going to do nope not like that
super
Maven poter equals
end now let's see how much logic we save
by doing
that so we're going to do opponent
OBS is going to
[ __ ] my OBS is going to be my X
is an opponent ID
split we can split
it I haven't quite gotten to hello
triangle
uh I'm confused because this is not
graphics
either this is tensor indexing for data
to go to our RL agents for evaluations
split size or
sections size for each
chunk I think then that we all we have
to do is we split it
into five * M's per
opponent and then what we do
OBS opponent idx
is of
I
right we'll see if we need that pointer
okay
otherwise oops opponent
action and then we need to
specify
opponent opponents of
I okay we're very very close now to
having this
um we still have to figure out how to
stack the actions so don't we okay I
think we had we kind of had that
though I think we did kind of have
that I think we get rid of this now we
don't need the
pointer I don't think we need this
pointer
actions and we'll do opponent
actions. cat
okay let's see how this does if we're on
the right track or
Okay cool so we actually have some
action data
here what do we get for the shape of
these 64 * 5 is 320 that's correct
why I don't know why we only get back
one dimension of data but oh no I do
we're
is there needs to be some reshaping
[ __ ] doesn't there
and
then ponent actions.
View dim
equals
this it's a little bit Jank and it's
definitely special purpose to this
en but I don't care
we Ste the
N we did step the
run this might actually run if this
works we're going to be so in such a
good spot
so many Twitter
notifications I'll take the
follows oh good Kung gets a little bit
of engagement on
this yeah he's up to over 100 followers
he just started posting as well Kung is
a really good person to follow he's
um he's done a lot of great work on
neural MMO in
particular really made the competition
possible
on uh I think that's it guys I think
we're going to overheat this stupid
[ __ ] okay so um my uh my fan blade on
the backup fan just
snapped
so I don't really know how I'm going to
keep this machine cool
think it's not stable anymore so like I
don't have a way
to I need like zip ties or something
[ __ ]
well this is a ridiculous way to um to
be stuck I'm currently stuck holding
this fan in front of my
CPU uh it will go to 100 Celsius Within
about 20 seconds if I do
not I'm trying to think how I can
salvage this for so I can at least Dev
for the next few
hours I'm trying to think if I have any
zip
ties I probably do but the question is I
don't know where I have them
here oh I've been looking for that
that's cool to know that that's there um
I don't know where I don't think I have
any zip ties
though well
[ __ ] I actually just found a bunch of
stuff that I've been looking for
come on there's got to be an easy way to
do this
right I don't want to like tape
something because this is so hot
fire up a quick vast AI instance
what am I supposed to stream
on like I don't have this whole like
this whole setup is not going to work on
my
laptop
like I I don't maybe I haven't explained
how ridiculous this is
so the CPU fan has like broken so it's
just like periodically spinning a little
but it's not really doing much and then
I used one of the case fans just as a
backup I just stuck a case fan in front
of it and it fell and broke a blade so
now it's like rotating all over the
place it still works which is why I'm
able to talk that's what I'm holding
this fan in place in front of the CPU
which is keeping it to 60c instead of
100 c um but I don't have a way of
attaching it there without holding it
like I'm looking and I don't see
anything I can attach it to easily
without zip ties
let me see if I can just be smart here
is there anything I can
right okay I managed to do something
incredibly precarious I'm going to
commit my code just in cas
case no no no no no no this is literally
the machine next to me uh exploding or
attempting to self-destruct as I'm
coding
case well we'll see how much longer this
stream lasts um let me use that time
just in case to see if I can find a
couple zip ties around
I have every part
imaginable I have like every single
possible part imaginable but I don't
know where I put my zip ties that's
great
well if anybody wants to recommend me a
uh a
new CPU fan for this mini ITX uh this is
the fan blade that
shattered so I've got a half of a fan
blade
here happy Saturday to me
day I've actually kind of intentionally
not been replacing that fan so this is
going to sound really stupid but I've
been kind of intentionally not replacing
that fan because like I know that this
PC can't be like set on Full Throttle
right because it prevents me from
downloading and playing Boulders Gate 3
so I don't know what's going to happen
if I uh you know if I actually like have
to get a new fan I might just end up
disappearing for a couple weeks I don't
know oh I totally screwed up the stream
in the process didn't I here there we
nope come on stay
there damn thing
there maybe I shouldn't run this
locally all right maybe that's what
we'll do I'll keep deving but I'll start
deving on the remote machine that's less
likely to spin the fan super fast how
about
smarter cuz this is not going to hold up
to heavy use
okay uh what happened do we have eval
elos here
yeah eval elos okay there let's run it
on here oh shoot we don't have the
checkpoints on here do
we uh I think we can just
like do we run it on this machine
perfect we even have our
checkpoints and now this should
work oh look at that look how fast those
games are you see
that by
nice okay so now this now we're in a
good spot I'm no longer worried about
losing the data um worst case scenario
I'll have to end stream and like the
worst case scenario is I'll have to just
end stream and do this on my laptop but
I'm not worried about like losing data
now let me just wedge this thing a
little bit better and then we'll just
keep going on this and I think I'll
hopefully be good for the rest of the
day
I might have to adjust it once in a
while but this will cover
jeez I used to like building all my own
hardware and stuff but it's such a waste
of time
now all right
n 64
M's 16 games
right so let's say we have 16 games we
get the
results
okay and then what we do is
game in
results so we
do
win
so if
30 well we shouldn't have 30
right opponent
num
Ms
ah it's got to
close okay let's put a break point here
and see what's going
opponent oh I see what's going on
okay yeah I see so
it's name equals
this and this should give us our update
perfect look at
that look at that
opponents yeah this is perfect now we
just need to
run let's see what happens if we run
like substantially more games
look at these games coming
through like more than a game per
second okay so we actually do get some
ratings
here um I'm a little
confused as to why our rating is
low it's possible that this policy is
just collap
right let's take one of the early
checkpoints that we know is probably
good so many dire victories what the
heck seven
90 and then what's it saying is
good it says 300 is really
good okay maybe this is true then right
maybe it just keeps getting better up to
300 let's see if we ever get one that's
above that does above a
okay oh we're actually good yeah we
actually we have this right
guys that's
sweet okay so now here's the thing we
got to figure out right here's the thing
we got to figure
out we got to figure out the way that we
actually want to update we just did the
hard
part we just did the hard part we got to
clean the script up obviously but this
is this was the hard part fast
evals now here's the thing that I don't
know right we're going to start out the
idea is that this is going to run over
uh over probably W be sweeps though we
can also use this over individual very
long training runs right but the idea is
that we start out we probably dump like
a random checkpoint in to start against
is like a starter opponent
right and then uh every so often a new
checkpoint gets dumped into the
directory all
right and the goal is going to be that
the new checkpoint that we dump in is
the one that we need to evaluate like
ASAP so that we can tell how good the
Run was right so we do an experiment we
finish the Run we get a policy and we
want to know how good it is
so my thinking is that we'll just run
the policy against either all or some
sample of all of the other policies that
have been recorded So Far So like the
random policy will just be initialized
with a th000 ELO a th000 ELO means that
you're a random
policy and then the first the first
first one that runs you know have some
experiment and then it'll run a bunch of
games against the random
policy and it'll get some ELO then that
ELO is fixed it will not change
subsequently and when we run the next
experiment we will just update against
that
ELO we'll just update versus that
ELO is that a sane thing to do or not a
sane thing to
do because otherwise the elos are going
to shift all around after we're done
with the
experiments which is maybe
fine but it's going to make it a little
hard to
compare to compare
stuff so I guess that the way that you
would implement this is
like is like this
right you only update your own ELO and
we'll see what
happens now mind you this is not going
to be a representative sample because
practically we're already going to have
elos assigned to these other
1158 which means that on average know
we're a fair bit better than these other
Bots we can also run substantially
larger um batch size than this I
believe this is only batch
640 I think like 128 games is very
reasonable to run for evals and it
should still run pretty
faster well faster per game we get good
scaling essentially
but yeah that took like 20 seconds not
even so 15 seconds we can totally run
that at the end of a game right we can
at the end of a training
experiment we can totally run that
I think we're good
though I think that we just figure out
how to integrate this now and we are set
with
this um okay
cool I'm going to
see it's
155 I think what we'll do I'm going to
make one silly Twitter post and then
we're going to we'll integrate this with
sweeps and I think that'll actually
already have DOTA in a good spot because
we'll be able to get consistent evals
and we'll see how stable training is
from there I've made a bunch of fixes to
the environment after
all
right back to real
work I just figured that this would be
uh
whoops I figured that this would
be where' it
Go guess it doesn't update weird
whatever let's go real
work how are we going to how are we
going to make this work going to com
this to start
with this has all got to go into demo.
somehow
right so we basically can just give it a
this whole thing just becomes a function
right
elos
um
checkpoint ter
opponents
eight
okay need the
environment is
fine we can remake it like this is also
fine
yeah we're
fine all we have to do
this might just be it let's see so you
do have to pass in we do have to figure
out how we're going to do elos because
these things do have to be updated from
uh from episode to episode I believe
I'm trying to think how I want to do
this we need to have the ELO save
is that actually loud enough that it's
coming through my mic
now yeah I see that activity on the mic
that's
obnoxious I guess I'll just close the
case it probably helps a little
okay I'm not seeing it anymore on the
mic
good so the way I'm going to want to do
this
here I'm trying to figure out how I want
to set the initial elos up I don't
really want to have to have like an
extra database or anything I'm trying to
think if it's like I guess it's not even
worth me trying to like cash
anything I think it's literally just
going to be
um that we we start it we give it we
give it elos right and then what we do
is we give it checkpoint
dur we give it
like elos was like was it
like
uh
name policy
elos what about but the thing is we're
already going to have saved a checkpoint
right so we're going to do we're going
to have to do
um policy we don't need policy then we
just need FN name
dur
elos and I guess what we're going to
just do is elos will start off as like
an empty dictionary and then what we'll
do is this will be checkpoint
dur
checkpoint like this
make M make M this is
fine hold on let me see if I can at
least set a threshold on the
mic cuz I can see it's still coming
through a little
bit uh Mike ox
status volume is there a way to just do
this real quick to like set a
filter let me hold
on OBS mic threshold
right click go to
filters oh wait yeah I found it hold
great now I don't hear any noise okay
great then it's already working I guess
I was I was seeing it on the input um
this is so Jank so like the CPU fan
broke and like it's making like this
like I can hear it from here like I can
deal with it like I it's actually like I
can feel the vibration of the fan
through my keyboard from a couple feet
away on the mouse mat but whatever it's
I'll buy a new I'm going to just have to
like next week do a little bit of
Maintenance like fix up some stuff on
this machine get a few things ready
[Music]
whatever
um if you can't hear it for now we'll
just keep going
so getting way too distracted by this
today as well
um so what I was trying to do is I have
this checkpoint here we're going to load
this checkpoint it's not a string we're
going to load right from here so we have
policy we've got opponents all right and
then this is load
this I don't use this because I do it
lower down
so um
what we
do if
checkpoint well checkpoint is in name so
Dell no it's just
path pop
checkpoint so we get rid of the
checkpoint From the Path because we want
to not be evaluating against
ourself got Deja Vu coding this it's
very similar to what I was trying to do
a while ago
um we don't need this
anymore we now we do
elos checkpoint is going to be equal to
a th000 okay we're now we we're getting
somewhere
so we sample with a replacement from
this
directory we get the opponents that we
want elos of checkpoint is going to be
equal ELO pair
one okay and then we will return
games and then what we do is we go
into demo
and I'm trying to think where this is
going to be run
from I think we're going to have to run
this
[Music]
from this should probably be run from
um the sweep right not from
train so it'll just be inside of sweep
carb
we've got carbs
here there are a few issues with this
though yeah there a few
issues maybe we can work around it
though
we also could do this like extra eval
here I guess this is
fine that's up time let's return policy
as
well policy
here
and what we'll do then is
here we need to do something for the
mooba
something name hold on M name
perfect so we're just going to special
case it here
so ELO import Cal
ELO and then what we're going to
do just do elos at the
top elos equals like
this and what we're going to do is we'll
do
ELO and do we have a policy
here do
not so
we need to put a random a random policy
into
annoying yeah it's very annoying
actually
I like I know how to do all this stuff
it's just I don't know how to do it
without making a whole mess of the rest
of the nice demo code that we have for
everything which has always been the
problem with this type of
work and uh the fact that this is in a
sub process makes it all that hard
harder
it okay so now there's a random policy
it's gross but it
works and then we
Cal
ELO we have to save the
works
policy ar. checkpoint
dur nope it's going to
be MOA ELO
elos which is going to
be model
model
[Music]
name model
name okay
elos and we don't need any of this stuff
because all the defaults are good
right
okay ELO equals Cal elos and then what
we do is we do
ELO uh what is it output
observed value equal ELO of model
name this is going to be a pain to test
because it's in a sub
process but the basic gist of this mess
is that we when we do a sweep we want
to clear out a special
folder just for the sweep
we're going to save a random policy to
service the
Baseline it's going to
have was it random.
PT I got to actually make the
elos random. PT is a
th000 there's a baseline in there that's
a random
policy has a th000 ELO we evaluate
against it we get an ELO we train
another model we evaluate against the
random one and this one we train another
model and it goes from there and then
carbs actually gets to observe the
value of these various different um
elos
okay let me see
Parent Directory MOBA ELO does not
exist uh
dur the
heck damn it sign
in
oops time for our hourly fan adjustments
in which I attempt to wedge this fan a
little better
yay that's
nice it does
something
let's leave these prints in just so we
can see a little bit
better
and we're going to make these
experiments super
short yeah so here we have like 100 Mil
or
whatever we're just going to
like so we can test this
right 5 mil
and then instead of 10 Bill it'll be 10
mil literally I'm afraid that if I get
up to use the restroom the fan will spin
itself out of place and this computer
will have overheated by the time I get
back
really I guess I can't send uh ins
across like this
this very close to having this working
happy to
say cool thing is once this does work
we're going to actually be able to
see potentially some real progress
plan
failed string cannot be interpreted as
string cannot be interpreted as an
integer well it would be really nice if
I had a
proper Trace
back I don't know why it would bother
why it would eat the entire
thing that makes it particularly
difficult to debug W
be this is actually for uh folks
watching I consider this to be like one
of the single greatest design sins you
can make in a library
is unnecessarily throwing something into
a sub process like there's absolutely no
reason that WBY has to spawn up
subprocesses it should just give me
control over the experiment Loop I'd way
rather write a for Loop and not have
something be on a subprocess like if I
want it on a subprocess I'll put it on a
sub process just eating errors for no
reason and like causing debugging
through subprocesses by default is God
awful from a design perspective
everything else about Wan B A okay this
one thing is like ban of my existence
I'm trying to think if I can even do
anything here because like I don't know
how to get the logs back from
this is there like A- V or anything for
one
debug
logs debug.log
useless
[ __ ] this is why this is so infuriating
let me see where this can I find where
this ered at the very
name
path
elos looks totally fine let's just run
it again and see what it gives
us it's pretty funny how you can clearly
tell people are not happy with the nurs
reviews
okay
so we can
see we can see right
here that we get
the we get to the spot where we're going
to evaluate
ELO and then we error after that so
somewhere
here there's a type error
with a
string which I would assume would have
to be in
here so
print print loaded
policy I hate hate having to do this
like print debugging is so stupid like I
only ever do this when I don't have
a when I don't have a a a
better
system I only ever do this when like I
can't use a debugger because something's
in a dumb sub process I haven't tried
attaching the remote pdb debugger to um
to the sub processes but I don't think
that works I think Wan B just eats it if
you have a like a break point I don't
even know what they're doing to achieve
that
but I mean I guess I could technically
try it maybe I'll do that next if I
don't get it from this I'll do that next
I'll see if I can do attach a remote
debugger I only do that when things are
really
okay we have it right here
so loaded model
zero loaded One
models and then it breaks after that
what string cannot be interpreted
oh what's this Syntax for
this is it
remove I guess it's remove right
n models less
than num
opponents this is supposed to be num
opponents right no num
models k equals num
opponents very
weird can I just make like a little hold
on
let's just
do if
name
sir
checkpoint model
o
PT yeah streaming on Saturday because
I'm off next week Monday through
whenever the hell
um so I'm streaming
today
welcome uh I also I think that uh after
this I have to do some maintenance I
posted here if you want to see something
utterly
ridiculous this is my desktop at the
moment
whoops yeah this is my desktop at the
moment um
has I don't know what you're referring
to up there [ __ ] hold
all right
so that was the the fan that you see in
the picture falling uh and me having to
readjust it it is sitting in front of a
broken CPU fan uh the fan that I'm using
currently has a blade snapped off so it
Jitters all about and it's really hard
to keep in place and I'm out of zip ties
uh so yeah I'm going to need to get a uh
a new CPU fan before I stream again but
we're making do I don't know about this
engine simulator that you're referencing
uh you can link it if you'd like I don't
know maybe twitch will allow it or you
just tell me what to
Google
um yeah
let's see if this
works see if I get any errors out of
this okay
so
this perfect so I actually can debug
this so range
object index out of range
empty they should not be able to be
empty there should be a random file in
here at
least oh I have an
idea uh engine simulator is a Super
Hyper physics SIM for
engines solid mechanics and fluid
mechanics okay cool
yeah I don't know how that works that's
cool
though not exactly what I
do I do
um lower Fidelity but super high
throughput
work so instead of like being able to
try to like model a very small slice of
time of like a very realistic thing very
accurately I try to like make a game run
a million FP s or whatever so we can use
it for RL
is why don't we just do
this this is fine this is easy
we're just hacking this together for now
to get the uh the experiments
working it's very difficult to think of
like a general purpose way to add this
really complicated and hyp specific
feature in
um without adding complexity to like the
whole rest of puffer lib so what I have
here is like at least I only have to add
like a few lines of like garbage to the
main file and then the rest of it lives
here and it's single purpose uh I have
come up with ways in the past of like
kind of trying to do this even during
training but it was just so much extra
overhead in
complexity I don't know maybe we'll come
up with better ways to do this in the
future but this is reasonable for now
now
running C andn status is weird I don't
like
taking quite a while actually I don't
that we're using
GPU says we're using GPU right
something's weird that is taking like
that
long we also are getting Pure Radiant
victories I guess it is versus a random
opponent okay and then we mess up there
right fine so it's not mine it's ELO's
of
um is it
have you ever used AMD gpus
nope I like pain and suffering but I
don't like that much pain and
suffering thus far AMD has been speed
running like completely
irrelevant GPU
Market um and making it pretty damn hard
to even think about using their hardware
for anything
AI their CPUs are still
good and after Intel's latest debacle
they're back on the map for that
but not for gpus I would not recommend
getting them if you like doing
ml it's really not worth it
weird how slow this thing is I would
expect this to be like way faster right
it was faster on my local box actually
so something's got to be wrong
right let's see um model
m
[Music]
games oh you know what it probably
is it's probably just that it takes way
longer to play the games cuz these
models are not very
good that's probably
it we'll set it to fewer on this one so
we don't have to keep debugging for this
long
checkpoint and then we'll just
go um
games yeah let's just do num games to
16 first 16 games to finish should be
much
all right there you
go there you
go so this now does
work let's see if it works inside of a
sweep what do we
think mode sweep carbs
and
MOA back
multi and we're going to see whether we
actually start getting some
results now these are kind of dummy runs
so we're not going to expect anything
crazy
here I see we've got a lot of folks on
YouTube at the moment so
welcome pretty slow paced Dev stream
today I'm just fixing um this ELO
evaluation system so that we can have
these agents here actually uh ranked so
we can rank all the different Bots that
we're training and we can understand
which hyper parameters and which
settings are best for training these
miniature MOBA Bots uh this project is
free and open source
it is all available on puffer lib
currently in the dev
Branch I'll link it in the chat and uh
if you do like any of my work you can
support it for free just by starring the
repository it helps me out a whole
ton back to Dev
things this metric is
wrong total levels
log we need a
way to log ELO no
ELO so we're still getting this error
here so we'll have to fix that but
um don't think how I want to log OS for
this
so here we
have we want this to be environment SL
ELO think how we log this before we
close wand
B right
yeah because otherwise it won't show up
nicely on the sweep
disappointing so in order to get this to
show
up but we need to do this this
thing before Dot close
I really don't want to have to pass in
Elo here but I think we have to right I
think we have to do ELO inside of
train not the worst thing in the world
but it does require us to reconfigure a
few
things
um
yeah just
do elos is
none okay
and
fine instead of policy here this is not
going to return the policy this is just
going to return
ELO and then if M name is Elo we'll just
do observed
value equals
ELO it can't be returned earlier than
that I don't
think
oh we can make this even easier can't we
because the target metric is going to be
ELO so all we have to do is we just we
don't even have to return it uh we do
have to return El Low's
though and then elos is elos like
this yeah and then this is going to go
down into
train and it'll go right around
here let's actually put
this here
maybe because we want it to be before
you close this environment
id M name plus u
ID for
is oh I know what I can do I know how to
cheat
it so M name is
MOA we can
do
xn equals
Len
elos
xn all right so that actually does
work
and now what we can do is we save the
policy here we import this Cal
elos we Cal the ELO
here and then Cal
ELO
elos we're going to return
elos and then what we do is
stats of Elo
is going to be equal to
ELO model
name and we do have to do wb.
log and we'll see whether this
works we're going to start by testing
this with train
first and then hopefully we'll have this
into sweeps quite soon and the goal is
that we should be able to get a chart
that shows for all of our experiments
elos and then we want elos to go up over
time as we run more and more experiments
and they become longer and longer and
this will be sort of a total blackbox
optimization in some sense
because the hyperparameter search
algorithm is only going to see what it
recommends as hyper parameters and um
what elos come
out I also forgot to decrease the train
time
so we're going to do total time train
total train time steps should be like
five
okay it's actually loading let's see if
it
works now step this
what hey bet how you
doing welcome
back we've had catastrophic Hardware
failure while you were
away this is
a piece of one of the fans from my
yeah box four and box seven are getting
shipped
back were any puffers harmed no puffers
were
harmed what is happening here oh there
it is it is running games just got
stuck it's funny it takes a really long
time to run these games I should
probably add a timeout of some
I don't know what it is more than like
anything else when people see puffer
fish they're like oh I should like grab
the puffer fish and take it out of the
water
or just leave the puffers alone they're
very
friendly intentionally weighted radiant
nope I have no idea why radiant is
biased to
win I assume it's because this model has
at least been trained a little
say now there you go there's there is a
dire victory
well you kind of can do whatever you
want but like why bother hurting a ice
puffer we'll see if if whether this
finishes
um okay there is a second dire Victory
so my guess is it's probably somewhat
biased in the favor of radiant but also
like these models are being trained
somewhat it doesn't take very much to
tip the um the game balance very strong
very strongly
like literally if just once in a while
you run down
mid and the other team doesn't you're
always going to win you'll win like
every
good
180 we'll set a three minute
timeout for these
games I've not looked at the code dire
is making a comeback well they're not
being trained live so I don't know
what's happening
here I assume it's just the games that
were quicker were quicker because
radiant did something
good but I'm using the chess like the
chess MMR so the goal is that uh we
initialize the policy like the ELO pool
with a random policy that has 1,000 ELO
and then you do a experiment
and then the final model from that
experiment gets
evaluated against the random one for a
bunch of games and it gets assigned an
ELO score based on that the random
policy stays locked to a th and then we
do another
experiment and it's evaluated against
both of the original policies and they
both stay locked but then the new one
gets rated and so on and so
forth and then what this should enable
is this should basically enable us to do
hyper parameter tuning that actually
makes sense because we will actually
have a metric a reasonable
metric
and technically we're once we do this
what I'll do is I'll make a couple small
changes and then we'll be able to run
this over checkpoints from an individual
training run so basically we will be
able to log um ELO over the course of
training for like a really long run and
we'll be able to see if we're making
stable improvements over the whole
course of training or not and the goal
with this will be to get it to the point
where we are continuing to make good
stable improvements uh over the entire
course of
training
and then it will just be a matter of
like find good hyper parameters do a
little bit of game balance modify the
network a little do a little bit
featurization whatever until we have
policies that actually play the game
reasonably
well mind you we have a massive data
Advantage here with how fast this thing
is
so as soon as we have like the basic
metrics in place we really don't have to
think very hard like just automate and
automate everything and run every single
experiment because it's that
fast time out is definitely going to be
helpful
here and then we pit it against
DOTA we actually are going to be
training on a comparable number of games
to the original paper isn't that crazy
they had a th000 gpus we have one GPU
but we have way we have tiny little
models in lot in really really fast
environments whereas they had like a
much bigger model and also like way
slower
environments non type has no attribute
log well let's set the timeout really
low so that we don't have to wait that
long again
fine I think you need to do das Das
track or yeah you probably need to do
das D track right
well I just wanted to do it locally but
I forgot that I had the logging built
in y all will have to tell me if I've
broken anything in Dev by adding this
but this is very important for the mooba
to
add it's such an obnoxious piece of
single purpose code as well
it didn't finish the games it just
didn't get any scores because we didn't
run it very
long but let's see if uh the ELO got
logged that's the main thing that
matters
no
data there should be something here
yeah right so here we return
this and then we
will we'll run the sweep to see we'll
run the Sweep with a timeout
of still 30 because I think there's
still a bug in it
it yeah we don't need
this so I think I can run it with
right cannot access
elos
right it's so weird that like
why is it that you can
use I can use this but I can't use
elos are you not allowed to assign to
it oh yeah you're not allowed to assign
to
yeah that
works really really really
obnoxious yeah but what happens is if
you assign to a global inside of a loop
it be like inside of a function it
becomes a local
isn't that
fun yeah you think I remember how like
every little thing that I use
infrequently in Python
works it's also it's very funny like
I've seen people saying that like some
Dev saying oh you know you should get
really like whatever your main language
is you should get really really good at
it like you should know all the ins and
outs and all the language features um
but I actually disagree I think that you
really don't need to give a [ __ ] too
much about the language details like
stop using all the fancy things you do
not need the fancy things you really
need a pretty small set of tools that
are going to be available in any
language like you're just finding more
foot guns
I think I'm going to take like a day or
two off next week in the uh later in the
week to just try jamming some uh some
C see how I like just doing a little bit
of programming in in Bas
fun cuz I bet it's not going to be that
bad
like I pretty much the way I write stuff
in Python is pretty similar as is it's
like I don't I don't use a lot of
language
features C++ you will never get me to
write I will just I just categorically
refuse to write C++ it's a terrible
language
what's wrong with
C++ um lots of mod modern stuff like a
huge kitchen sink of modern stuff bolted
onto sea in like the clumsiest way
possible with the maximum number of
possible foot guns
yeah you can you can completely just
write in C but when you say C++ like you
assume that you're dealing with C++ code
bases which means you have to deal with
C++ programmers who use all the shitty
okay so we're not getting elos for some
reason
might [ __ ] around and learn some scratch
next
week ah you're
funny he's
meing learns some
scratch oh wait we have we have elos
here we got
elos they're not uh showing up here for
some reason
environment
slash ELO
right
H do we have to log him with like uh the
agent idx or
pretty you want to know how you know
you've been coding too
much I had a dream last night that I
discovered that rust was actually a
great programming language as long as
you write everything in unsafe mode and
then I looked it up and it's even worse
if you write everything in unsafe
mode well I thought it was G to just be
like you know see with some extra
features and really good tooling right
that's what I was thinking it would be
and it ends up being like complete
Zig I don't know does ZIG does ZIG
transpile to RW
SE I have to
check cuz whatever I write I like I if I
can write stuff in C I can compile it
for web assembly which is really
motivations okay so these
are
interesting I don't know why this does
not get logged as the thing
it's kind of weird that this doesn't get
logged like I have values here why do
they not get
logged environment SL ELO right
environment SL
ELO and these get all
all set to
null even though they're
I really don't see anything that I'm
doing wrong
log does it want me to have like an Axis
or something
dying no I don't see anything dying
right but I also don't see
um finish calculating
ELO for model 4.
PT there's one process we're good that's
not it
I think I have to call reset a second
time as well on the environments to make
this more accurate so it doesn't
randomize all the starting
configurations that could be the reason
for some of the inaccuracies but I don't
I still don't know why it's not logging
um
I see it in the sweep I see it in the
sweep is the weird
check wait I'm just logging ELO right
hold on am I dumb
uh I think it's cuz I'm dumb hold
on yeah it's cuz I'm
dumb let's do it like this and
then set
Zig has some lit features on
paper can you run it
online I actually saw some stuff with
the memory allocators that would be
really useful for
us but the thing is like just
fundamentally it's not a smart idea to
like to write the environments in Zig or
C or anything right it's like so much
easier for people to contribute them in
syon like it actually I've been getting
people so excited right about like
writing ultra high per environments
because it's easy right if I say yeah
but you have to write them in raw C
that's no longer fun so I was thinking I
could just do it for like specific
rendering front
ends run Zig compiler in a
browser is that like run python in a
browser or is that like actually good
like good
support there a
question Zig is not faster than C
okay so let's see if this actually gives
us the sweep data we
wome yeah we'll see how much I actually
care about the features it
gives right environment SL ELO oh look
at
that that's really
nice what do we give it like 180 seconds
or
something to
decent I don't need to sandbox Zig stuff
I'll just download it and set it up to
try it
but I honestly I don't think I'm going
to be doing zigg next week at least to
start I'm going to just be doing some C
okay
so let me
um let me start this
runs and if
so we will be in a good
spot H shoot I want to go make a shake
but I'm actually afraid that this fan is
going to fall while I'm gone and then um
my computer's going to
overheat isn't that
ridiculous what happened with the fan
well the CPU fan just stopped working so
I had to put just like a case fan in
front of it and there's not really a
good way to secure
it so it keeps falling out and if it
falls over like within 30 seconds the
Box will be at 90 90 plus C so
it's been pretty stable for the last
little
bit Yeah it turns out a CPU fan is not
necessary you can just take a case fan
and put it in front of the CPU fan and
that actually
works yeah I can same day one but the
thing is I still have to install it
which is
like I'm going to order one after this
stream and I'm going to install it like
next week or whatever
well I need to find like a I need to
find like a nice little mini ITX
fan because it's like a it's a mini ITX
thing it's in like um I got like the
Razer Mini ITX case cuz it looked cool
it's nice I actually really like the
case
yeah I think it's going to be somewhat
of a stupid process
unfortunately uh okay here's what's
going to happen right now so I'm going
to go use the restroom I'm going to
check back in to make sure that this
thing is not breaking I'm going to go
make my shake so it's going to take
total of just a few minutes and then
what we're going to do if this is
working we'll make sure I haven't broken
anything else we'll Commit This up and
that'll be set on the mobile for the
time being and we will look at a few
other things around uh puffer lib and
maybe do a few other fixes and I'll just
think about a few other things to like
that we can do over the next little bit
for puffer um of course if it's not
working then we'll have to fix it but I
will I'll be back in a few and then
we'll keep going from
there hopefully if the stream goes down
it's because of the stupid case fan and
uh I will be back once I fix it be right
all
right we
survived all right we got
um looks like some runs
experiments
welcome okay so uh this is fun look at
this
here and um this is just evaluated
versus the random Baseline so there's a
precise interpretation of that I believe
it is roughly
that's roughly like a 95% win rate I
believe versus the
Baseline is what that means of course
it's a noisy estimate but that's what it
is and then everything from here will be
evaluated relative to uh both this and
the random
Baseline so if we look at the
environment
here we can see uh let's just do
step
agent agent
steps so we can see here that this is
like a slow takeoff thing and now this
second policy oh wait the blue one is
the first one right yeah so the blue one
here has this nice dire level
curve and we also get Towers taken in
blue and then we have more Towers being
taken here by
Red reward death is going
down we have all sorts of stats we see
that this one is going much more
aggressively towards the enemy
base and uh we see all these stats but
the thing is we can't actually interpret
all these very well on their own cuz
like oh it's getting very high reward
but actually the hyper parameter search
is controlling its reward weights it
sets its own reward weights and it's a
competitive game as well so you know
it's against a fixed opponent so really
the only way that we have in order to
understand this is
Elo and ELO is very hard to evaluate I
just spent all day right figuring this
out so now we have a way to evaluate ELO
relatively efficiently only adds a few
minutes per training run to do this at
least to some reasonable
extent um it plays like 120 games are up
to that number however many it can do in
3 minutes of of roll out
time and hopefully we should actually
see now over time what hyper parameters
are truly better based on the ELO that
they
results I wish I could come up with a
more General way of adding this as a
feature to puffer without making a mess
of things but really this is like a
complicated thing that's going to take a
while to figure out how to do more
generally for now though we'll just not
make any more comp pure competitive
games like this uh until we can do that
we'll do more just like interesting
cooperative and um single player games
single player or like Cooperative
multiplayer or like you know nonzero sum
multiplayer
games I tried I made an ELO rapper
before it like it worked but it was
complicated and it was a pain in the ass
like it added an extra layer to debug
through that just
sucked so I think this is
fine we'll see whether it results in
stable training or
not needs to be tailored to the end I
mean it shouldn't we should be able to
have a general way of doing it but
amusing there's way too much slop on
Twitter these
days way too much
slop all right let's commit all this
stuff and then we'll figure out what to
do you can tell me if I broke anything
in Dev bet I'll try to fix it quick
cool so we now have this fixed
[Music]
um I guess it would not be a bad today
is Friday it's not a bad day for me to
just like go through some ideas for what
I want to do next with puffer and
evaluate for from here check gen one
Pokemon for potential is this the action
space bug or is this
uh let me
see so lat to
run veck and re what the hell let me
think cannot
reshape I don't know how how that happen
so late into a run
yeah I don't know how that would happen
though
immediately let me check a couple things
and then we'll we'll do some I'll do
some thinking about
loud well the thing is even if it is his
code like there should be it shouldn't
fail there so even if he fixes it I'd
like to know like what error message or
warning I can put
what the heck is going on
in
con one M steps per a second
yeah okay well here's what we're going
to do folks let's figure out what we're
going to do next with puffer because
I've kind of been stuck
lately I'm going to be honest
stuck we're
like 90% of the way there with all the
puffer infro 90% of the way
there the main thing is
that we need
okay I'll look at that after I finish my
current train of thought
so the main thing with puffer right is
like my the plan is that in order to
support
the whole set of things that I want to
do next
right build lots of environments super
quickly um run lots of experiments right
get lots of interesting behaviors
learned build from
there what we need is very fast easy to
use and guaranteed correct
hyperparameter
tuning we basically need a workflow
where it's like Implement environment
run command and 100 to a th000
experiments pop up and solve the
environment and give you the optimal set
of hyper parameters and all sorts of
additional information you might want
and we're going to want to have
pre-tuned baselines for all the new
environments so Atari is now fast enough
that we can do that though they do take
a little while to
run the Moa is fast enough to do that
though we're going to have to do some
environment side Dev as well I'm sure
it's you know still a project
and we have like the grid M and a few
others as well and I guess the thing
that's holding it back the most at the
moment is just the fact that we're like
90% of the way there on hyper pram
tuning not
100% um one thing that's really rough is
not having carbs native with wand B that
really
sucks once cortech is established do you
see puffer becoming the best inclass
open source rlm Zoo yeah that's the
goal as well as providing the tech to
make those those fast environments
actually useful right if you throw any
of these environments through gymnasium
VC you lose 90% of that performance you
just work so hard to get cuz the vacuum
implementation
sucks probably eventually people if like
if meta keeps investing into torch RL
probably people will want to use a lot
of these M's from torch RL you know
maybe having ported some of our features
which is fine I don't particularly care
if that's what people want to do as long
as you know people know that the M's and
the tech came comes from puffer um we'll
see I'm not really motivated to make
that happen early because I don't know
I'm just incredibly biased against the
style of big Tech engineering it just
makes it incredibly difficult as a
single individual to like get stuff done
quickly so I like the way puffer is
doing everything for now
anyone can bind whatever M and they care
and go bur yeah
exactly
yeah I've been trying to make it really
nice and you know it has very active
support it has the best support of any M
out there like there's no other there's
no other Library where you can literally
just like come by stream which is
constantly and have stuff be fixed
live how am I now just hear heing about
Tor cuz it's
new it's a relatively new
project and it's like I haven't used it
personally yet like I think that they're
building it well but in a style that I
don't particularly like it's kind of
like s sp3 or RL lib where it's like
it's big Tech it's very much big Tech
lots of like swappable modules and stuff
but no like no easy way to actually just
you know show me the code let me do what
want which I think RL is going to need
until it gets more
mature like the AG like the uh the
flexibility and just the ease of doing
whatever and puffer is just too good is
it as fast of course not no
way nothing matches
puffer they don't have our VEC they
can't there's basically no way to be
faster than puffer without doing um
asynchronous training like using a
different
algorithm yeah I mean people can
Implement our VC optimizations if they
want um no I don't really care as long
as people know that they came from
puffer or whatever
like really the only thing I care about
is like I it's all open source for a
reason right the only thing I care about
is that like you know puffer delivers
enough excellent software that companies
are going to want to have uh support
contracts with us right because that's
what allows me to continue doing
this so as long as people don't just
steal our stuff without crediting us
we'll probably like always be in a place
that we're going to be able to do that
but we do need some
rev be starting on that process
soon tensor
dict yeah tensor dict is really good
I've been talking with the dev of that a
whole bunch um it's not quite there
yet you can't write a PO training script
in less than a 100 lines of code that's
not true
things it will be able to be used in a
very similar way to um to
puffer but I uh I don't think that they
should have
done making the whole thing used toward
torch tensor end to end is a little bit
odd to me I think it's much more General
and simpler to have the whole thing used
numpy and then um you know at the very
end you can just swap from numpy to
torch uh to tensor dict without copying
of course you know it's it's meta
they're going to want to have the whole
stack be their stuff
right like their t dict is basically my
emulation
layer right but like my emulation layer
is implemented in like uh it's like 100
some odd lines of numpy it's very very
simple it's not like a massive project
to do all of it
right like tensor dict for usage in RL
the place that I would suggest adding it
would be uh right before you put the
data into the model probably
you would like yeah right before the
data goes into the model or like gets
onto the GPU you would convert it from
numpy to tensor dict without
copying and then you just do Cuda that
like one raw
array but yeah you cannot write a PO
training script in less than 100
lines I don't know if it's faster
they'll probably match speed eventually
if they implement the same
features um it's a heck of a lot less
code
though like the thing is the 100 lines
of code is not an honest 100 lines of
code right that's like using a lot of
their very highlevel
Primitives like clean RL is an honest
like honest 300 lines of code is
po p Tor I'll show you sure I don't even
have to look at it to know though
way sync data collector replay buffer
tensor storage sampler without
replacement probabilistic actor but like
look at all this stuff clip po loss this
is not this is not an honest 100 lines
of code this tells you nothing like this
actually tells you absolutely nothing
about what's happening
right and like I the design of it is not
bad right this is not a bad design
especially as RL gets more mature
but at the moment for me this is way too
high
level because this is
like this is like the Swiss Watch Right
everything is great until something goes
wrong and then you have absolutely no
recourse right as soon as something goes
wrong you have absolutely no recourse
because everything is
buried oh I have every idea
yeah like honestly this is probably the
best of the highle Frameworks I've
seen so they're doing good work like
they have smart people working on this
they're actually doing good work
um but this is just not a mode that I
can work in right like I this just like
doing stuff this high level is just not
a mode that I work in this is very fre
worky it'll be better than SP sp3 and
they'll get better performance and
they'll have better support for stuff
I'm sure but
um I mean it's going to come at the
price of them having at least 10 times
more code than
puffer I mean they've got 134
contributors on
this and like they have a decent number
of main contributors as well you can
see like they've actually got a decent
number of people on
yeah it's it's kind of Caris like I I'm
sure that companies will like it and the
thing is if companies want to use torch
RL that's fine by me right we're still
going to have utilities for them with
puffer and if you want like extra
stuff we're still going to be able to
make good stuff from
it yeah puffer fits right in that's fine
basically as long as I I actually really
don't care what happens with everything
as long as perer can get revenue and I
can keep building this type of stuff
right I think we'll be
fine look at
this like basically the only thing that
has to happen for RL to be able to keep
moving forward and for me to be able to
keep scaling this is for um you know
enough people to want to pick this type
of stuff up to see this stuff is useful
that we can get more machines put
together some open source boundaries and
eventually you know hire a couple of uh
a hire a couple of people fulltime and
we'll be
set this is so nice look at
this you can just see right
here like where these metrics look good
these ones tell you specifically hey
this thing has like a 95% win rate
versus
these would you work for
meta I don't know if I would be useful
there honestly
like I should not be put in charge of
like a a Fang style project like that
right my style of work is a lot
scrappier like I'm I'm very good at
doing like small to midscale like very
Scrappy
projects like I can do a ton with like I
can do a ton with a few thousand lines
of code that's the main competency I
have see y future on
premise uh we are going to have a bigger
cluster that is in the
plans we're going to at least have to
start we're going to get a 50 node
cluster
that's going to require roughly a
quarter of a million in Revenue
though little more I don't have a
quarter of a million in tax writeoffs
uh no actually it doesn't right yeah
it's totally fine
cluster and that'll basically be
hardware for
um about 3
years this is very
good the way this is
working we're going to have to check the
models for these and see if the models
are any good yeah fix
RL honestly we're already fixing
RL we are honestly already fixing
[Music]
RL it's so
close so I mean I guess the last thing I
was trying to figure out maybe we'll
figure this out today as the config
system I'm not changing it anymore don't
worry about that I just have to figure
out how I'm going to handle
um different configs for different
environments in the same
Suite no don't worry it's not anything
crazy
add I really just want to be able to add
like a defaults file into a into the
folders Young's PR
oh
okay wait there's no way this is
blocking him from working on his project
he can just edit the line of code
right and I don't have this tested for
everything
else here I'll just I'll YOLO merge it
for now because his stuff is usually
tested Chong usually doesn't break Break
Stuff Kung actually breaks stuff a lot
less frequently than I
do this one I'm not
merging um where's that guy's
thing fix
vectorization oh
well I I don't have a I don't have a
concrete thing like I don't know why
it's why that's
happening
what
work isn't isn't this an old
commit when is this from does this work
works and fought some
errors I don't know what this is fixing
like is there if there's a specific
error this solves I'll look at it for
sure until then I'm going to just look
at the con the configuration if I have
something more specific I'll do
this good progress on uh Twitter this
week almost at
4,300 I F I fixed the creation I fixed
uh the creating 2 M's thing that's been
fixed for a while
again the Twitter is not just popularity
contacts um contest the Twitter is
literally I don't have to do marketing
because Twitter exists when you look at
it that
way it's really really
valuable all right we've bored everybody
to death here um so let's let me figure
out some configuration stuff
stuff okay so
here ar. default config
recursive equal to
True let me see what this
I think I'm going to be able to just add
like two lines here right
all I really want to do is load um a
config if there's one in the same
directory
list this will do it if I can finish
this this will have uh everything
list yeah I know it returns a list I
just thought that um join could take
that I thought join was that flexible
so here's the thing with battling OS
right it's going to feel like that now
if you keep programming in five years
it's going to feel
trivial and it's like these are not the
demons we fight you want to see demons
we fight real demons all
there is absolutely a reason I say like
RL needs an
exorcism these are some those are them
some
demons now load a config file not real
demons design a config system that
doesn't
suck real demons real demons
would you use it if it were in
Rust well it would need to have python
bindings right and there's really not
much point of doing it in
Rust it's like the least performance
sensitive portion of a code base
imaginable puffer lib does need to be
starred that is not optional if you're
watching this and you have not starred
Puffer
what are you doing star the
puffer it's all I ask it helps me out so
much
all right this is a little silly but
it's kind of
how long we've been online six and a
half
hours not
bad we' been doing things
subc config default any is not what we
wanted
here the goal is for it to be the subc
config right
look at that so this does not work
arbitrarily deep there's not arbitrarily
deep nesting support but this is good
for
now this will allow me to do what I want
to
do and for now for the price of like
adding five lines of code to demo. piy
and not making too much of a mess I'm
happy with
that I'm very happy with that
this is the
Zen of
code all right I'm very happy about that
did we hit the
4,300 not
I don't know it's really just not worth
publishing these days for me
with the way that this has
been I still have to do the puffer
rebuttal I don't feel like doing that
right now though maybe I'll write that
one
tomorrow in the meantime why don't we
just chill out and um what's the puffer
rebuttal we have to do a rebuttal for
puffer lib it was actually of the three
papers for nups it reviewed the mo the
highest we got a 66 and three I don't
know how you give puffer a three but we
had 66 and
yeah I know it's like insane right it's
like how do you release something where
it's like yeah this just speeds up the
entire field it's like nah it's not
useful I swear on stream but the Auto
mod might kick you from the
twitch
ah well I think that the uh yeah I think
the only thing I'm not allowed to have I
think there's like there're technically
certain things that I'm required to
moderate due to
toss other than that
whatever yeah there are cires of Hell
reserved yeah I
know um let's chill out and do some cool
Atari stuff so this is going to be
really
nice so now we have all these files
right let's copy Atari any to default.
any okay and now we
have all these environments yeah
all of these
environments and we get to set some nice
reasonable
defaults or
things I think all of these are going to
be gone
but then essentially what this will
allow us to do is to remove a whole
bunch of this stuff from the other
ones Atari beam
Rider uh we don't need policy name or
RNN name I don't
believe I think these are
inherited and we should not need any of
these other parameters
either we would only need the batch size
the mini batch size BPT
Horizon um total time steps can
stay and then all
these and then the cool
thing uh is that
we can get rid of all this isn't that
Zen look how nice that
is just the prams we need
jari named
pong not need any of
this we will take total time steps and
batch
steps and this is what I've been trying
to do for months with Atari is to just
have it be this nice now if we could get
these files exported from sweeps
automatically that would be even
nicer but that's like a relatively minor
thing
right I'll save to DOD
slightly annoying collecting the best
yeah it is a little
Annoying and it does introduce the error
the opportunity to have errors in manual
copying for
sure but I would also have to add a
substantial amount of code I would think
right Maybe not maybe there's an easy
way to save
doin needed
throughput well you only have to save
one per giant sweep usually right
so that's on the that's definitely on
the docket right but this is the higher
priority thing for sure is being able to
do this so we can actually have
um have some nice
things okay we do not need any of this
anymore
right we also have to remove uh we have
to remove some of these Ms
cubert so that they don't get uh
detected
here beam Rider breakout
pong we didn't get Enduro let's go do
endur
going these ones are not so
good but these are random hyper
parameters at the start so some will
will be better some will be
worse it's very cool to see though isn't
it the ELO graphs like this has got to
be a good policy it's very would be very
difficult for it not to be like this
means that it his One games versus the
other policies it's the ultimate
performance metric
and we unfortunately we have to go way
back down to
here convergence specifically for
spaces uh all the probe environment
should be like 0.95
plus definitely 0. n
batch size
32k BPT horizon4
clip
coefficient
48 reasonable
gamma oops be careful not to write them
in the wrong
spots
H uh learning
rate nice thing is that these are going
to take less than an hour to
48 fast is nice yeah these are very
fast update Epoch is four that's very
awkward that they use four update
Epoch
um very low value function clip
coefficient is also very weird means
it's making very aggressive updates to
things
technically we should be able to see
um see correlations and
such we'll look at those
later all right this is
it oh frame skip we should check the M
parameter for frame Skip it's four
I don't know if it's actually getting
used correctly because it's always
four yes sir back again how are the elos
looking bro I'll show
one so we have this sweep running right
now it's been running for an hour it has
nine completed runs we have all sorts of
Curves and we have elog graphs
these are randomly sampled hyper
parameters after the first 14 or 16
experiments or so we'll start using
probabilistic estimates to pick better
and better ones but it takes a good
couple hours to go through some random
samples first to try to make some
estimates but yeah this is running
um I mean you can see the step length
here 250 mil so this is running at
I don't know well over a billion
training steps per
hour and the ELO evaluations they only
add they add three minutes flat per
experiment at
most it's not
we also just made some nice fixes to the
configuration system that's going to
allow us to have very very nice Atari
baselines holy [ __ ] a billion
steps per hour at least bare
minimum I think that's an underestimate
I think I mean once we get this thing
fully optimized it should be close to
about 3 billion steps per hour that's on
one GPU as
fast I wouldn't be doing this if I
didn't think I could legitimately like
fix this entire field right like this is
what I'm working on fulltime having
graduated instead of taking a job
elsewhere right like I wouldn't be doing
this if I didn't think we could do just
have this huge massive impact on the
field in a very short amount of
time that's meta CH yes that's the point
it's actually meta changing and here's
the cool thing that is going to be the
standard for all environments and
reinforcement learning going forward you
know why because I'm implementing tons
and tons of environments from scratch
and I know how to get a million steps
per second minimum on all of them for
simulation and minimum 500k for training
on all of
them and automated hyperparameter tuning
over the entire thing you can launch
hundreds of jobs you can run tens and
tens of billions of steps worth of
experiments per day per GPU with high
quality hyper pram search that's better
than anything that most people are using
now this is the future of RL right here
that's why I started streaming right
it's cuz like this is like watch the
future of RL just being built
live this is based on a specific GPU
4090 it's a high-end card but it's not
um it's not it's no
h00 I'll show you where they're
running I think you've seen this
right here's where all my experiments
are
running so I mean it's a nice little
cluster but this is literally like a few
desktops on a rack in a garage it's not
insane like this is not this is nothing
insane like if you're an Enthusiast you
can totally afford one of these right
if you're like actually somebody who
really wants to do like research and
stuff you can totally buy one of these
they're four grand a piece and you can
get it down to three without losing too
too
much on Prem
yeah we do it on
Prem we do it on
Prem we're about to do uh we're about to
release super high quality Atari
baselines probably need to run some more
sweeps to get them even better but we're
going to get some very nice high quality
Atari environment sweeps
we got to just change like there a few
small tweaks I have to make to all this
logic it's 90% of the way there like to
having like perfect automated everything
sweeps
really I kind of shot myself in the foot
with the DOTA project because I forgot
about ELO I forgot we had to do ELO of
vals so I built him now but it's kind of
like the least clean piece of code in
puffer now it's kind of Jank but hey
it'll work as long as I don't have to
implement ELO as a general purpose
feature for any M just yet we're
fine say when the MOBA is completely
working and learns well can you apply
the same controller to something like
Dota 2 um you apply the same workflow
and the same like everything else but
the thing is you're still at the end of
the day going to have to rerun a lot of
the sweeps on the new en and like larger
models and stuff and those M's are way
like those environments are so much
slower so like I would expect that if I
wanted to do like open ai5 this would
save
me probably at least like 70 70 plus
percent of the money that I would spend
trying to do open ai5 I would save by
like doing it on this smaller MOBA first
right I'd save like the vast majority of
the
money I would still have to do it out
the full scale though
eventually but hey it would save many
many millions of
dollars not bad for like uh you know a
few thousand lines of code that I've
just written sitting here in my
it and we're nowhere near done yet I'm
not going
anywhere well except next week I'm
taking a few days off to run and then
recover from
running and then I'll probably after
that I'll stream some like some silly
Dev stuff just trying some fun stuff out
to see if anything sticks and uh then
I'll be back to the serious stuff I
don't know I kind of want to try to like
code some of the renderers that I wrote
for these M's and C because it would let
me put them in web assembly and like
share them
online kind of want to do that for a day
or two just to reset myself
mentally other than that though not
going anywhere
yeah I mean if you like the work that
you see here right it's pretty simple
right just help me promote it contribute
some like cool Ms just interact with the
stuff all helps it all helps a
ton one of the things we're going to be
doing in the next month or so as this
becomes like fully fully automated the
hyper parameters tuning is I'm going to
focus on just making it a little bit
easier to add custom Ms and then we're
going to just hyperscale like crowd
sourcing of simulator simulators it's
like hey you want to do some pretty easy
Game Dev and makes a million FPS games
for
RL and learn a bunch of stuff in the
process and get you know be one of the
contributors to this that's what we're
going to
do do you have a cool more explorative
environment you want to build
yeah there's one that's not announced
yet that'll be uh soon I will say it is
of comparable magnitude to the
MOBA if not a little bit
bigger but there's more stuff I want to
do after as
well there's much more stuff
afterwards I'm just trying to convince a
bunch of researchers to like come hack
on cool ends with me basically
good hey and if you want to if you want
to add any of these Ms to puffer right
there's a template you can basically do
what the snake M does make it a million
steps per second and we can add it as a
useful envin puffer if you'd like
you're free to add you know authorship
and whatever at the top of course we
credited on the main page
obviously we are definitely looking for
cont contributions
good what oh is this the Enduro sweep
right here
yeah we're good we'll use this
one oh yeah this is a good trick I
should do this um it should
be we should do wall time right or
relative process time
versus yeah yeah so like look we should
do like
this this is the Pito
front these are the Pito optimal
policies right
here we'll still take this one because
it takes longer but it's very very
good we'll probably set like a cut off
of
like what 30 minutes of training or
something for Atari we'll
see burrito
optimal burrito
optimal yeah I can definitely do better
than this as
well I have to change a few things with
cost I have to set maximal cost values I
think for the uh the environment we
should be able to set the maximum cost
to be like hey try not to recommend
experiments that are going to be over
half an hour
I swear I'm actually 27 going on 80 how
old and grumpy am I that like the thing
that annoys me most outside of work is
like children playing outside being loud
like actually so freaking jaded and
grumpy it's
ridiculous frame skip six okay that's
interesting it actually set a different
frame skip value
it's not even that like it's it's that
particular
noise like I pretty much just want there
to be birds outside and that's
here no man I love birds the best birds
are
great it's all right you're you'll
understand when you're
ridiculous I'm kind of confused that it
works that
way though probably as we make
improvements to the puffer code it'll
converge to more reasonable
things definitely though this needs to
be automated this thing I'm doing right
here definitely needs to be
automated I just don't want the extra
100 lines of code to be in in Puffer
all
right well these are the
policies we have seven M's one two three
four six six seven
yep we have to just make sure C
Quest you have to delete the ones that
we have specials
for that's like the easiest way to screw
up is to forget to delete the
uh to delete
these cqu Quest endur
Space
Invaders
cubert
Hong
breakout see I think we're
good I think we are
should we double check some of these
because it's possible I messed some
stuff
up or we could just run a
sweep I guess on the other machine it
would have to be
right um we also let's just double check
like it shouldn't take that long right
M beam
Rider oh wait these are the bad beam
Riders yeah this is a good
one probably this one is what we
four 65k batch
yeah this is definitely the one we
used Mini batch
1024 update
Epoch yeah very silly
parameters but this is what it
says gri skip of fourth right
yeah
okay long probably
fine we're just going to say that these
are probably good oh I didn't check
um the time
steps do have breakout
somewhere yeah here we
are
um I don't know which one we did
well I think we're fine let's
um let's save all of
cool this is set anything else on the
Moa in the
meantime have we
uh any more
runs look at
that 1,800
MMR I don't think that these are like
perfectly true mmrs because the way
we're updating is a little silly but
it's pretty close
these should be good good policies for
sure at the
did we get any results on GPU Drive
actually I think I ran a sweep and then
never looked at it
a lies
none yeah I think it's the blue ones
right yeah so we've got to activate like
two
three five six 7 8 9
11 13 14
15 16
done oh actually I think that's
plenty okay
so kind
of there were kind of some that worked
interesting it's got high reward
not necessarily High goal
achieved this is the high perf GPU
driving Sim
we'll have to make some fixes to that
later I'm going to give them a little
bit of time though because
um they're going to need to uh update a
few things before I can run a proper
hyper pram sweep that's really the debug
tool for
this oops not this
slack just make sure I don't have any
messages from them and
um then we
will we'll run the
Atari uh we'll run the Atari
M and we'll do a couple last things
today
cool no nothing from them they're uh
they're busy at
RLC the GPU Drive M it'll be a few more
days until they're back they'll be back
I'll be done for with my run they'll be
good
should be pretty large by now right oh
yeah 150 Stars already in a few days
well
done all right let's do
um let's just go into the other
box for puffer box one
brch brench
hole hip install sheet
Dot and we're going to run the Atari
baselines
are and then we'll uh we'll like
allocate it'll basically just be we'll
have to allocate a box for a few days to
get higher quality tune results but for
now this is a very nice starting point
run
baselines with Atari demo mode train
Baseline
and these ones have to be underscored
now back multiprocessing I think these
are all reasonable
there we
go pong at
30k Baseline done in 2
minutes let's make sure that we have
something reasonable on the
um on the
this uh
oh where is my experiment
do I need to Dash Dash Track with
Baseline you shouldn't
right where's my
run you need
to I thought it was if you had Baseline
you didn't need
it was already half trained in that
time it's
okay we'll have um fixes coming in but
yeah little fixes here and
there be
made I don't know why the search bar for
this is already
demo mode train Baseline
track
and H that's weird isn't
it is wan B like not logged in on this
machine it should be
filter it should be registered by now
though says two hours
ago did I break
something no I don't see the Baseline in
here I didn't break it no this is the
other one running on the other machine
I didn't make a new
project right I didn't make like a GPU
Drive no I
didn't you do have I do have Dash Das
track see Dash Das
track it's already it's
hardcoded into these J Wars puffer lib
it's the same as I've been using
forever what's up with it's got to be
the dash Das Baseline Pam right maybe I
broke
this track is
true so you shouldn't need
this
join init wand
B it does do weird
stuff args X ID
puff version M
name track is
true it'll only accept there being one
of the same
name I
see it's supposed to overwrite
outdated why is it starting with
breakout wait
pong it's pong not
breakout that's
weird
huh is this actually a Breakout game
it's a breakout with pong stats
breakout so this is like this
got somehow saved from
before no this is a minute
ago so it's not actually this
quit and it should be puff D one-
breakout
name let me go look at the 1.0 version
to see where the discrepancy is we'll
fix this and this will probably be like
the last thing or close to the last
thing
right and config migration really put a
damper and stuff
needed okay so
version it's the
move
tree init w
b ARS M name args X by D okay that's
different args
name
ID and then this is args X
I think I just have to swap um I have to
swap one thing
8 yeah no the reason the question for
you was like why doesn't it learn is it
unpacking the data wrong or
something oh the OB space in
it the OB space in it but you changed
the OB space in it to be like float or
something didn't you no it should work
with like actual data types of the bases
otherwise you're throwing away more
memory the whole point of that test was
to make sure that that worked if there's
a bug and puff or there's a bug and puff
or that guy mentioned they're being
weird [ __ ] with um the like the torch P
torch function like the nativized D type
or
whatever but that's part of figuring
this
out okay here we
are puff 1.0 pong
but wait if I do this is there going to
be I'm not going to be able to pull it
down as
um am I going to be able to still pull
this down
that use
artifact oh yeah no it should
work model
name
maybe why don't we go
see we'll see what it
does
so it's done
yet why would only the dtype in in in it
or in
probably because it's like there's
something that's not handling uh non4
byte data right or something I don't
know
man in it yeah go chase in
that go
chase is a good
good to go chase
it should end stream earlier
today after I finish this maybe one
other
thing because
um well there's stuff to do
puff 1.0 pong model of V2 okay this is
good this is exactly what we
want we're
set we're absolutely set
here so what's going to happen is we're
going to
have all of these nice baselines just
run and um you know we'll optimize from
here we won't announce these officially
until we get obviously some like
reasonable sweep values
but this is a very nice starting point
very very nice starting point for sure
nah they didn't
reply dang okay
oops anything new in messages
all right that's
it
um I think we're pretty well set overall
here we've done well
today check the mobile one more time
yeah this is perfect so we can just go
like this and like this
right and get these episode returns
we'll see whether breakout is stable or
not of
.1 and then the other one
is
14 runs now these are still
random all right but we have lots of
different
um we have lots of different settings
and actually we can see that we have
these two pretty similar looking not
really these two hyper pram
settings they're not similar at all
actually and we'll see uh this will run
100 100 experiment or so
overnight so I'm not going to be doing
much coding tomorrow I probably won't be
streaming but um you know I might
actually ceue up just queue up some jobs
right we could queue up some like big
Atari sweeps for
instance not much I can probably do so
in a few days we'll have um we'll have
nice Atari results etc etc we'll have
maybe some better MOBA prams we'll see
is there anything else I can do right
now actually yeah there is let me order
dinner
though maybe I'll look at the spaces
thing with you real quick bet but let me
order dinner
first let me check one thing as
I'm trying to figure what I want to eat
before my uh my marathon it's not for
two
yeah I definitely want to get some uh
pasta
though it's a little tricky I'm
balancing here
um I have very bad digestion so I'm
trying to balance like having enough
glycogen stores versus not screwing up
my
stomach I'd way rather run a marathon
tired but without any stomach problems
than uh like on full energy but having
issues this is also the end of the mini
cut hopefully I don't know maybe I've
cut a this
week we'll
see I'm intentionally doing this on the
other
monitor well I haven't weighed myself
I'm just saying that like I've probably
cut a pound because I've been eating
substantially less right do I have I
also have not been running a ton this
week so who knows maybe it's just break
even which is also fine as long as I
haven't gained long as I'm not running
heavier than
before okay
make sure that order goes
through I think the best choice for
carbs for me is to just have a few
slices of toast in the morning so I
don't feel like super hungry because
that won't be able to get through my
digestion in time to make me uh
miserable the same
day we'll
see but yeah this will be uh this will
be a tough
one this is going to be like
dramatically dramatically
I mean I don't know I'm in way better
shape but this is going to be a
dramatically harder course than anything
I've done
before I mean it's basically like my
mass my last marathon except it's going
to be hotter outside and you also run a
mile straight
up
it's going to be probably two more laps
than I did
before let me find
it yeah here it
is so this
oops it's going to be two more lap I
think them before so it's
eight elevation
was where's the
elevation 3,000 ft so probably
4,000 we'll
see I don't know if my me my uh
measuring is correct here but actually
this is not bad
this is actually very good heart
rate this is
sustainable this will be pretty much
identical conditions to
um it'll be pretty much identical
conditions as
well so this run hurt quite a
lot um but this was at the end of a hard
training block so I'm now like two weeks
relatively rested
I should be pretty well set I'm not
trying to go very fast either there's
absolutely no time goal for
this if anything I'd like to increase
the
distance I don't know maybe I'll just
randomly decide to do a
150 that's like for me that's like a a
pretty common training Pace but for long
runs so my average here is
one yeah 148 so even a little lower um
but that's for I mean this is for
a almost 5 Hour run
right if I do short stuff and I'm trying
to go fast then it'll be
higher this is me like very carefully
pacing for 22 20 2 2
m you can see here like it goes around
and around and around and around and
around I go
home hey that's awesome losing 16 pounds
in three months you're doing excellent
yeah that's good it takes longer to
reduce resting heart rate I found like
my resting heart rate didn't go down for
significantly more than three months it
took me like actual hard training but it
does eventually go down my resting heart
rate went down from like 83 which was
God awful to like
7273 I don't cut uh I don't have have
alcohol cut completely but I don't have
it very often like I'll have a margarita
once every sometimes I won't have one
for a month sometimes I'll like go out
to dinner and I have like you know like
two in a week or two in like two
weeks but uh I'm consuming like a very
very small amount of alcohol compared to
I drank very very heavily in uh in
college and for a couple years
afterwards probably
like the [ __ ] many drinks did I have a
week I don't know 20 or 30 something
stupid was not a hard habit to break
though at
all before running it was a beer
KN yeah it's not great for
you but I mean before I stopped drinking
I was having like you know four or five
drinks
mid like several nights a
week um the funny thing is it like it
was very very easy to quit it was kind
of just like H well this this makes it
hard to train and I'm like I want to
train so you know I'll just not do it
I really don't think
it's I don't think it's addictive really
at least it wasn't for me it's just fun
like it's fun but not
addictive freaking MMOs were way more
addictive than uh alcohol ever was
yeah yeah I mean bad but
like fun as well
is there anything I need to look at here
bet for
um is there anything I need to look at
for uh this bug or is there like
anything I can fix
here I guess I should check the puffer
Discord I'm supposed to be a good on
support right puffer is supposed to have
good
okay we're
good I think we're set
um I miss anything just looking if I
missed stuff
paper I forget if I'm paying for
overleaf do they I forget if they
do seven b just with Safari
Zone
removed hide out in s
Co skipped Erica
okay that's
cool
dang this is
good I do not know what
my blood pressure is
I will tell you as well that
um another a good way to cut even more
weight without like doing crazy crazy
amounts of exertion is to just increase
distance really
slow if you just do really like just do
really slow long runs it's done crazy
well for me I have one I just haven't
used it in a
while I wouldn't be surprised that it's
bad just from stress but
missing Noble I don't know what this
is all right I think I caught everything
is your PhD done yep been graduated for
three months now
you shouldn't need the knee sleeves if
you don't have a pre-existing injury
though if you're starting off at a
heavier weight than
um let me
see let's see uh let's check our
sweeps yeah
okay so 16 runs it should start doing I
think right about now is when it'll
start uh doing the sweeps more
intelligently and also we should view it
like this um instead of created
timestamp it should be process
front and then we'll see where it goes
from
here as
for the other
sweeps or the other
runs what's the context on what you're
working
on um let me see if I can find for you
something should have some stuff on my
Twitter where's the
oh yeah here we go
so 1 million FPS single thread MOA
miniature version of Dota or League of
Legends essentially runs ridiculously
fast um and we're training now like well
over a billion steps per hour on this
with automated hyperparameter tuning and
just today implemented an ELO system so
we can actually track how well the Bots
are doing versus old ER Bots as we train
more and as we do more hyper parameter
tuning so that is all fully automated
and that is what is running right now
we're getting uh ELO curves out of this
and I also threw the same hyper
parameter tuning stuff on Atari and we
have like ludicrously ludicrously Fast
Atari like we can solve pong in less
than 90 seconds on one GPU so we're
basically just trying to solve
everything at this point mob is one
project we've got a whole bunch of other
SS I'm working on and uh goal is just
make reinforcement learning sane fast
and
are there's beam Rider is it stuck
why don't I see
Rider
uhoh int and
Tuple oh I'm
dumb goal is to test out puffer lib and
the goal is to just solve everything and
make re enforcement learning
s so I guess that's one of the things
you do in the process
format yeah yeah those boxes are rough
bet I don't know what to tell you with
that uh we are shipping two of them back
and we do have the warranty extended on
the CPUs to 5
second all right this is now
pushed hatch
there we
go pong
is H slow configuration oh no there it
is 30,000 steps per second we're
good what Lang was the base MMO
programmed in no way you're getting an a
million FPS in Python right uh so this
is not neural MMO yet though there may
be some stuff coming for that
um it's syon so not far off python looks
pretty similar but it runs in pure
C looks like python
though you want to see the MMO code
everything all my stuff is open source
you know go check it out and star the
repo on the way in um here I'll show
you and I got to and I'll see if my
dinner here as well cuz I got to uh get
some food and call it a
day uh
ocean
here this has a bunch of prints in it so
it's really only like 1300 lines but
this is just one file scyon it's written
in the stupidest and the simplest way
possible it's just a
script it's very very simple code
and it gets a million
FPS runs in pure
right pretty like flat simple
code yeah they're a couple pointers but
we don't really do anything too poiny
with them nothing too pointy with the
pointers
pretty
basic what's doing the
drawing
Raab RB is
amazing the whole render is like I don't
know 200
lines we have multiple different render
options as well yeah here's
render some key code so you can play the
game yourself we draw some
tiles we like draw a few tile textures
here
and then all this garbage is just like
drawing overhead bars and UI stuff
that's it couple hundred
lines Ray Li's
awesome perfect timing couple minutes
before uh Foods here so yeah um this is
all online and play with it there's a
lot more than this as well we've got
snake that runs at like 10 million plus
steps per second you can play snake with
like 4,000
snakes
um training for snake is a
million training for this is like 5
600,000 but we'll have it at a million
soon as I optimize it here's the highle
render of the Moa it's pretty
cool you can see it like it looks like a
MOA right
yeah that's what I've been up to for the
most
part making some really good fast Sims
trying to make RL easy we do have a
little bit of fancy stuff every so often
like uh for instance for path finding we
actually we pre-compute all the path
finding so you can see like this is
optimal path finding this is all
pre-computed I know nothing about RL
million games are being played no we
what we do with the Moa I think we play
like 1,200 games
simultaneously it means that the game is
running faster than real time right for
simulation and uh overall we're getting
a million like if you were a player
playing the game we're getting like a
million player States per
second another way of thinking about
this is I believe it's like you're
playing 5 and 1 half hours of DOTA per
second is about what it works out to
be 5 and a half hours of DOTA per second
it's a lot of DOTA lot of
data I have to check how much it is I
think it's like on the order
of it's like 500 Megs of data a second
or something not quite a gigabyte
though too much garbage on
Twitter oh this was a fun thing from
today yeah this is my desktop at the
moment I have to get a new fan I wedge a
a case fan up because the CPU fan broke
so this is currently what's cooling the
PC it's doing actually a very
surprisingly good job like you would
think that this would be terrible
cooling but my CPU has been at I've been
streaming as well on it right and it's
only at 60°
C if you take the fan off it goes to
100° celsi and shuts
cool well I uh I am going to basically
call it here folks not familiar with
RB
manay uh CB is uh hold
on where is it rayon this guy's
awesome like this is just the coolest
like awesomest library ever I love this
freaking thing so
much um yeah but folks uh I put just a
moment ago I'll put it one more
time but here we'll put both links got
to do a little bit of promo here uh it's
it's all free after
all how often do you stream usually five
uh usually 5 days a week Monday through
Friday I'm on today because I'm taking a
little bit of a break next week I'm
doing a long run when I have a few days
to recover I'll probably be back
streaming Wednesday or Thursday though
um yeah this is I'm usually on like I
don't know somewhere between 11: and
noon through like 5 or seven
Pacific so anyways folks all the stuff
you see here all the RL it's all free
it's all open source the code is very
very simple uh you're free to play
around with it there's a Discord you can
come chat you can come contribute new
environments you can do all sorts of
cool high performance RL stuff um if
you're interested in this stuff
generally this is my Twitter you can
follow it there and there's also all the
code puffer Ai
github.io and the repo is puffer i/p
puffer Li if you want to help me out a
whole ton star the repo it's free helps
me out a
lot the growth on this project has been
amazing and uh this is the type of thing
that really makes it a lot easier for me
to keep doing this type of stuff so
thank you all and uh see you around and
thanks b as well